 Bitcoin: Learning, Predictability, and Profitability via
                  Technical Analysis∗


    Andrew Detzel                           Hong Liu                                Jack Strauss
   University of Denver          Washington University in St. Louis               University of Denver
                          Guofu Zhou†                                  Yingzi Zhu
                 Washington University in St. Louis                 Tsinghua University

                                              April 11, 2018



                                                  Abstract
       We document that Bitcoin returns, while largely unpredictable by macroeconomic vari-
       ables, are predictable by 5- to 100-day moving averages (MAs) of its prices, both in-
       and out-of-sample. Trading strategies based on MAs generate substantial alpha, utility
       and Sharpe ratios gains, and significantly reduce the severity of drawdowns relative to
       a buy-and-hold position in Bitcoin, which already has a Sharpe ratio of 1.9. We ex-
       plain these facts with a novel equilibrium model that demonstrates, in the absence of
       cashflows, rational learning leads to joint predictability of returns by different horizon’s
       MAs.

JEL classification: G11, G12, G14
Keywords: Bitcoin, cryptocurrency, technical analysis




   ∗
      We are grateful to very insightful and helpful comments from William Brock, Campbell Harvey, Raymond Kan,
Bill McDonald, Leifu Zhang, and seminar participants at Washington University in St. Louis.
    †
      Corresponding author: zhou@wustl.edu. Comments welcome.
I. Introduction

Bitcoin is one of the most speculative assets in the history of finance. Its rapid price increase

surprised even the most optimistic of market observers and early investors. One dollar invested in

Bitcoin on October 27, 2010 grew to $103,453 by January 31, 2018, while the same investment in

the S&P500 stock index grew to only $2.65 over the same period. Moreover, Bitcoin is only the

first digital coin in the rapidly growing cryptocurrency market that has a capitalization exceeding

$800 billion at the end of 2017. Bitcoin’s dramatic price growth accompanies similarly dramatic

volatility. For example, Bitcoin experienced three large drawdowns averaging 30% in 2017, in

spite of ultimately realizing a more than 1,300% return over the year. Few, if any, measurable

fundamentals explain Bitcoin’s explosive price growth and high volatility. In contrast to common

financial assets such as stocks and bonds, Bitcoin does not pay dividends or interest. Since Bitcoin

has no widely accepted fundamentals, existing asset pricing theories are difficult to apply. In this

paper, we address two natural questions of investors: what explains the dynamics of Bitcoin prices

and are Bitcoin returns predictable?

   Given the absence of observable fundamentals such as dividends, interest payments, or book

values, Bitcoin traders must rely heavily on the path of prices, which signal information of others.

Theoretically, under various imperfect market conditions, Treynor and Ferguson (1985), Brown

and Jennings (1989), Hong and Stein (1999), Chiarella et al. (2006), Cespa and Vives (2012),

Edmans et al. (2015), Han et al. (2016), among others, show that past stock prices can predict

future prices. These results imply that technical indicators, which are functions of past prices,

can represent useful trading signals. Empirically, Brock et al. (1992) and Lo et al. (2000), among

others, show that trading based on technical indicators, especially the moving averages of prices,

can be profitable in the stock market. Schwager (1989) and Lo and Hasanhodzic (2009) further

provide insightful comments about the effectiveness of technical strategies from top practitioners. A

crucial assumption in existing equilibrium models featuring technical analysis is that assets generate

observable cashflows, and thus their assumptions are not applicable to Bitcoin.

   To motivate the applicability of technical analysis to Bitcoin and other assets that lack funda-

mentals in general, we provide the first equilibrium model featuring technical traders and assets

without cash flows. Our model differs from that of Han et al. (2016) in two key respects. First,


                                                  1
our model features heterogeneous technical traders who are rational investors that optimally learn

from past prices, though each over a different horizon. Second, our model’s risky asset does not

pay dividends. Rather, the asset produces a random flow of utility-providing benefits, which are a

latent state variable investors learn about. The central novel prediction of our model is that the

moving averages of these assets’ prices over different horizons jointly forecast returns.

   Consistent with our model, we find that Bitcoin returns are jointly predictable in-sample by

ratios of 5- to 100-day moving averages (MAs) of price relative to current price. In-sample predictive

regressions can overstate the significance of predictability to investors in real-time. (e.g., Goyal and

Welch (2008)). Thus, we assess the out-of-sample predictability of Bitcoin returns by MA-price

ratios. To incorporate information across horizons, we apply out-of-sample mean-combination

or three-pass-regression-filter methods and find statistically significant out-of-sample R2 s (e.g.,

Rapach et al., 2010; Kelly and Pruitt, 2013). Moreover, encompassing tests reject the null that

the out-of-sample forecasts from any one horizon’s MA subsumes the predictive information for

returns from forecasts based on each other MA. These results indicate that the MA-price ratios

of different horizons jointly forecast Bitcoin returns out-of-sample. We also test whether Bitcoin

returns are predictable by the VIX, Treasury bill rate, term spread, and the default spread, which

are common predictors of stock returns. While these variables have some degree of in-sample return

predictability for Bitcoin returns, this predictability fails out of sample.

   To assess the economic significance of Bitcoin-return predictability to investors, we form a

trading strategy that goes long Bitcoin when the price is above the MA, and long cash otherwise.

We find that these trading strategies using MA lag lengths ranging from 5 to 100 days, significantly

outperform the buy-and-hold benchmark, increasing Sharpe ratios by 0.2 to 0.6 per year from

1.9. The alphas and mean-variance-utility gains are also large for most MA strategies. Moreover,

average returns on Bitcoin on days when the different horizon MA signals indicate a long Bitcoin

position are 11 to 58 times as large as when the signals indicate investment in cash. These results

are robust across both halves of the sample. The MA strategies also outperform the buy-and-hold

benchmark when applied to other cryptocurrencies, such as Ripple and Ethereum, Bitcoins two

largest competitors.

   To further test the prediction of our theory, we also consider the NASDAQ portfolio during

a ten-year window (1996–2005) that includes the dot.com boom-and-bust of the early 2000’s. In

                                                   2
this period, many emerging technologies associated with the internet and other communication

advances introduced fundamentals that at the time were difficult to assess, much like Bitcoin. Many

NASDAQ companies possessed no earnings (or negative earnings) for years before they became

viable, and other company’s innovations never proved valuable and eventually failed. We show

that our technical trading strategies applied to NASDAQ outperform the buy-and-hold benchmark

in this ten-year window. This outperformance largely derives from avoiding the length and severity

of the major NASDAQ drawdowns during this period. We also show that the profitability of

the moving average-based strategies declines after 2005 as internet-based technology matured and

investors became better able to evaluate price using fundamentals. These results demonstrate wider

applicability of our model to other emerging assets characterized by fundamentals that are difficult

to value besides just Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.

   Our model provides a refutable economic implication in addition to the joint predictability of

Bitcoin returns by MAs of prices. Specifically, in our model, trading results from variation across

MA horizon indicators. Consistent with this implication, controlling for the absolute value of price

shocks, the chief empirical determinant of volume, we show that proxies for disagreement across

horizons and total turnover implied by the MA signals are significantly and positively associated

with trading volume. Hence, overall, results demonstrate that Bitcoin returns are jointly predictable

by MAs of different horizons, investors can profit from this predictability, and Bitcoin’s trading

volume is at least partially explained by differing MA trading signals across horizons.


A. Related Literature

Our paper contributes to the growing literature on the economics of cryptocurrencies and the asso-

ciated blockchain technology. Relatively few papers in this vein study the asset pricing properties

of Bitcoin. Using the Cagan model of hyperinflation, Jermann (2018) empirically examines the

relative contribution of shocks to volume and velocity on variation in Bitcoin’s price. Jermann

finds that most of the variation in Bitcoin’s price is attributable to volume shocks, consistent with

stochastic adoption dominating technology innovations. Dwyer (2015) explains how cryptocurren-

cies can have positive value given limited supply. Athey et al. (2016), Bolt and van Oordt (2016),

and Pagnotta and Buraschi (2018) all provide models in which the value of cryptocurrencies de-

pends on some combination of (i) usage and the degree of adoption, (ii) the scarcity of Bitcoin, and

                                                 3
(iii) the value of anonymity.

    Our model differs from those used by these prior studies in at least two important respects.

First, we do not model Bitcoin as a currency per se. Accordingly, we do not specify currency-related

determinants of its value (e.g. (i)–(iii) above). Rather, we model the flow of utility-providing

benefits as a random state variable. This generality is important because some market participants

argue that Bitcoin is better thought of as a speculative asset than a currency (e.g., Yermack (2013)).

For example Bitcoin’s high volatility eliminates its use a store of value, a defining feature of money.

Second, the papers cited above all assume full-information, however, our model features learning.

This feature is critical given the lack of agreement on what determines the value of Bitcoin.1 The

learning aspect of our model also helps us to answer novel questions relative to the prior studies

such as: what predicts Bitcoin returns?

    Relative to asset pricing inquiries, most of the literature on the economics of Bitcoin seeks

to identify its economic role, implementation issues, and uses of cryptocurrencies. Böhme et al.

(2015) discuss the virtual currency’s potential to disrupt existing payment systems and perhaps

even monetary systems. Harvey (2017) describe immense possibilities for the future for Bitcoin

and its underlying blockchain technology. Balvers and McDonald (2018) describe conditions and

practical steps necessary for using blockchain technology as a global currency. Easley et al. (2017)

provide a model of Bitcoin trading fees. Yermack (2017) discusses use of Blockchain for trading

equities and the corresponding governance implications. Gandal et al. (2018) document Bitcoin

price manipulation. Biais et al. (2018) model the reliability of the Blockchain mechanism. Catalini

and Gans (2017) discusses how blockchain technology will shape the rate and direction of innovation.

Chiu and Koeppl (2017) study the optimal design of cryptocurrencies and assess quantitatively

how well such currencies can support bilateral trade. Cong and He (2018) model the impact

of blockchain technology on information environments. Fernández-Villaverde and Sanches (2017)

model competition among privately issued currencies. Foley et al. (2018) document that a large

portion of Bitcoin transactions represent illegal activity. Huberman et al. (2017) model fees and

self-propagation mechanism of the Bitcoin payment system. Malinova and Park (2017) model the

use of blockchain in trading financial assets. Saleh (2017) examines economic viability of blockchain
   1
    In a Bloomberg interview on December 4, 2013, Alan Greenspan stated: “You have to really stretch your
imagination to infer what the intrinsic value of Bitcoin is. I havent been able to do it. Maybe somebody else can.”



                                                        4
price-formation mechanism. Prat and Walter (2016) show theoretically and empirically that Bitcoin

prices forecast Bitcoin production.

   The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section II introduces the model and discusses its

implications. Section III provides the data and summary statistics. Section IV reports the main

empirical results, and Section V concludes.



II. The Model

Moving averages (MAs) of prices have been widely used in practice for forecasting and trading

risky assets such as stocks. However, to the best of our knowledge, no rational model justifies such

practice.2 In this section, we develop the first rational equilibrium model that provides a theoretical

foundation for using the moving averages of prices for forecasting and trading risky assets including

cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin.

   In the model, there is one risky asset (“Bitcoin”) whose service flow provides utility to investors.

There are two types of investors with different prior beliefs about the future benefit of Bitcoin.

Trading occurs between the two types of investors as their beliefs evolve over time. When type

1 investors are more optimistic (pessimistic), they buy from (sell to) type 2 investors, and vice

versa. Due to lack of full information about the risky asset, we show next that in equilibrium the

optimal investment strategies of the two types of investors can be approximated by functions of

MAs with different lags which is endogenously determined. The main insight of the model is that,

with incomplete information, MAs of past prices can be useful trading signals. Moreover, trading

volume can be predicted by the MAs which indicates how disagreement changes over time between

the two types of investors.

   We start out the model with a set of assumptions.

Assumption 1. There is one unit of Bitcoin in the economy and each unit provides a stream of

service/enjoyment δt , where
                                          dδt
                                              = Xt dt + σδ dZ1t ,                                       (1)
                                          δt
   2
     In contrast to our model, Han et. al. (2016) exogenously assume there are some investors who use moving
average rules in trading.




                                                     5
                                                                       p
                             dXt = µ(X̄ − Xt )dt + ρσX dZ1t +           1 − ρ2 σX dZ2t ,                           (2)

where σδ , µ, X̄, σX , and ρ ∈ [−1, 1] are all known constants and (Z1t , Z2t ) is a two-dimensional

standard Brownian motion, and the expected growth rate Xt is an unobservable state variable that

affects the service flow of Bitcoin.

    While Bitcoin does not provide any cash flows, we assume that it offers service flow to investors

who derive utility from it. As a result, there is a market for its trading. For risky assets like stocks,

the service flow can represent dividend payment. Different from most stocks, the uncertainty about

the expected growth rate Xt of Bitcoin service flow is much greater. On the investors, we make the

assumptions below.

Assumption 2. There are two types of investors who differ by their priors about the state variable

Xt and possibly initial endowment of Bitcoin.3 Type i investor is endowed with ηi ∈ (0, 1) units of

Bitcoin with η1 + η2 = 1 and has a prior that X0 is normally distributed with mean M i (0− ) and

variance V i (0− ), i = 1, 2.

    Denote by Ft the filtration at time t generated by the Bitcoin price process {Bs } and the

prior (M i (0− ), V i (0− )) for all s ≤ t and i = 1, 2. Further let Mti ≡ E[Xt |Fti ] be the conditional

expectation of Xt . Below we will solve the equilibrium price explicitly in terms of Mti . For this, we

need two additional assumptions.

Assumption 3. All investors have log preference over the service flow provided by Bitcoin with

discount rate β until time T . Specifically, the investor’s expected utility is

                                                   Z T
                                               E         e−βt log Cti dt,
                                                    0


where Cti denotes the service flow received by a Type i investor from owning Bitcoin.

Assumption 4. Investors can trade one risk free asset and the Bitcoin with the risk free rate rt

and the Bitcoin price Bt to be determined in equilibrium. We conjecture and later verify that Bt

satisfies
                                       dBt
                                           = (µit Bt − δt )dt + σδ Bt dẐ1t
                                                                         i
                                                                            ,                                      (3)
                                       Bt
   3
     Since investors can continuously observe δt , they can directly calculate the volatility σδ and therefore there is
no disagreement about the volatility.


                                                            6
where µit is an adapted stochastic process and Ẑ1t
                                                 i is an innovation process to be determined in


equilibrium.

   With the above assumptions, we have

Proposition 1: In an economy defined by Assumption 1-4, there exists an equilibrium, in which


                                   dBt = ((β + Mti )Bt − δt )dt + σδ Bt dẐ1t
                                                                           i
                                                                              ,


the fraction of wealth invested in the Bitcoin by Investor 1 is

                                                       αt Mt1 − Mt2
                                              1+                    ,                                          (4)
                                                     1 + αt   σ2

and by Investor 2 is
                                                       1 Mt1 − Mt2
                                              1−                   ,                                           (5)
                                                     1 + αt  σ2

where

                                                                                    Rt i
                                                                                                           !
                                          Bt                                        0 g (u, t) log Bu du
            Mti = hi (t) + f i (0, t) log    + (f i (t, t) − f i (0, t)) log Bt −      Rt                      (6)
                                          B0                                               i
                                                                                        0 g (u, t)du


is the ith investor’s conditional expectation of Xt , hi (.), f i (., .), and g i (., .) are as defined in the

Appendix for i = 1, 2, and αt is as defined in (A.8), denoting the ratio of the marginal utility of

type 1 investor to that of type 2 investor.

   Proof. See the Appendix.

   There are two important implications of Proposition 1. First, it implies that the Bitcoin price

is predictable by the moving averages, because

                                                Rt  i
                                                 0 g (u, t) log Bu du
                                                    Rt
                                                        i
                                                     0 g (u, t)du


is simply a weighted moving average of the log prices of Bitcoin. With linearization, we can

approximate this moving average with the arithmetic MAs of prices, as is more commonly used in

practice.

   The second implication is that the optimal trading strategy is a linear function of the MAs. In

our model setting, investors trade with each other due to their differences in prior beliefs. Because of

                                                          7
the lack of complete information, investors use MA signals to extract information from the market.

As a result, their optimal trading strategies are functions of the MAs. As far as we know, this is

the first rational equilibrium model that justifies the usage of MAs for forecasting and trading risky

assets.

   In practice, due to difficulties in estimating the exact functionals, we use the MAs only as timing

signals. This is for simplicity, similar to technical stock trading in practice where most technical

traders apply the MAs to time a stock or the market. The simple trading strategy is then: When

the MAs are high enough, we either buy or hold the position if bought already; Otherwise, we sell

or do not trade if we do not own any Bitcoin.



III. Data

Bitcoin trades continuously and electronically on multiple exchanges around the world. We obtain

daily Bitcoin prices from the news and research site Coindesk.com, which is frequently cited in

professional publications such as the Wall Street Journal, over the sample period July 18, 2010 (first

day available) through January 31, 2018. Starting July 1, 2013, Coindesk reports a Bitcoin price

equal to the average of those listed on large high-volume exchanges. Prior to July 2013, Coindesk

reported the price from Mt. Gox, an exchange that handled most of the trading volume in Bitcoin

at the time.4 We also obtain data on a second cryptocurrency, Ripple, from coinmarketcap.com.

Ripple is one of the two largest competitors to Bitcoin, and of these two, has a much longer time

series of data available.5

   We obtain the daily risk-free rate and market excess return (M KT ) through December 29,

2017 from the website of Kenneth French. To measure the risk-free rate on weekends and through

January 31, 2017 (during which time the FOMC has not changed the short-term rates, we use the

most recently available one-day risk-free rate. The average risk free rate over this time (see below)

was multiple orders of magnitude smaller than the average Bitcoin return over this time so our

risk-free rate assumptions can not have an economically meaningful impact on our results.

   We obtain daily prices and total returns on the NASDAQ composite index, Gold, and the

Barclay’s aggregate bond market index from Bloomberg. We obtain daily levels of the S&P500
   4
       For details on the history of the Bitcoin market, see Eha (2017).
   5
       Ethereum is the remaining cryptocurrency from the three largest by market cap.


                                                         8
index, VIX, 3-month and 10-year Treasury yields (BILL and LT Y , respectively), and Moody’s

BAA- and AAA-bond index yields (BAA and AAA, respectively) from the St. Louis Federal Reserve

Bank website over the sample period July 18, 2010–January 31, 2018. We define T ERM = LT Y −

BILL and DEF = BAA − AAA. V IX, BILL, T ERM , and DEF are commonly used returns

predictors and among the few available at the daily frequency (e.g., Ang and Bekaert, 2007; Goyal

and Welch, 2008; Brogaard and Detzel, 2015).

   Figure 1 depicts the time-series of $1 invested in Bitcoin or the S&P500 at the beginning of our

sample period. Over the roughly seven year sample, $1 investment in the S&P500 increased to about

$2.65. Over the same period, $1 invested in Bitcoin grew to $103,453! Table 1 presents summary

statistics for our main variables of interest. Panel A shows that Bitcoin earns an annualized daily

excess return of 213.6% and a Sharpe ratio of 1.9 with an annualized volatility of 111.0%. In

contrast, M KT has a much lower average return and volatility over the period of 14.4% and

14.6%, respectively. Although far less than the Sharpe ratio of Bitcoin, the resulting M KT Sharpe

ratio of 0.99 is relatively high by historical standards. The aggregate bond market, proxied by

AGG, also earns a high Sharpe ratio during our sample of 0.82. In contrast to other markets, Gold

earned slightly less per year than the risk-free rate. All of the returns have small and insignificant

daily autocorrelations.

   Panel B presents summary statistics for several benchmark return predictor variables used in

the next section. All four are highly persistent, with an autoregressive coefficient of 0.96–1.0.

Moreover, Augmented Dickey-Fuller tests fail to reject the null that any of the return predictors

except VIX contain a unit root.



IV. Empirical results

Based on the theory of Section II, we predict that returns on Bitcoin are jointly predictable by

moving averages of price and technical-analysis strategies based on Bitcoin should produce even

greater performance than the buy-and-hold strategy. We test these predictions in this section.




                                                  9
A. Random walk test

Following Lo and Mackinlay (1989), Table 2 reports variance ratio tests of the hypothesis that log

Bitcoin prices follow a random walk. Under this hypothesis, the variance of price changes should

scale linearly with horizon and the variance ratios (VR(q)) should be one for each horizon. Rejection

of the null hypothesis implies predictability of price changes via the history of prices. Ratios below

one are consistent with mean reversion of log prices. If the variance ratio is above one, log prices are

mean averting (Poterba and Summers, 1988)), and returns are positively autocorrelated. Consistent

with the latter, results for k=2, 4, 8 and 16 weeks all reveal ratios above one, and VR is significantly

and substantially above one for horizons of four or more weeks.

   The fact that Bitcoin’s variance ratio is above one encourages the use of technical analysis,

because it indicates positive autocorrelation of returns. Thus, when the current price is rising and

above its 5-, 10-, 20-, 50- or 100-day moving average, investors can likely profit from purchasing

Bitcoin as the positive trend is likely to continue. In contrast, if a negative shock causes the price to

fall below this horizons moving average trends, investors should sell as the negative trend is likely

to continue. In short, the random walk hypothesis of Bitcoin price is rejected, and we show below

that its price is predictable by the MAs, consistent with our model and suggested by the variance

ratio tests.


B. In-sample predictability

Following Han et al. (2013), Neely et al. (2014), and Han et al. (2016), we form technical strategies

based on the prior day’s price relative to a lagged moving average (MA). Specifically, we define a

moving average (M A(L)) of daily Bitcoin prices (Pt ) as:

                                                         L−1
                                                         X
                                      M At (L) = (1/L)         Pt−l                                  (7)
                                                         l=0


We choose moving average horizons of L = 5, 10, 20, 50, or 100 days. These lags choices are

common, see, e.g., Brock et al. (1992) and Lo et al. (2000). Our main return predictors of interest

are the ratios of prices to moving averages: (M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 ).

   Table 3 evaluates in-sample predictability and presents estimates of predictive regressions of



                                                   10
the form:

                                     rt+1,t+5 = a + b0 Xt + εt+1,t+h ,                              (8)

where rt+1,t+5 denotes the log excess return on Bitcoin over business days t + 1 through t + 5. We

use Newey and West (1987) standard errors with a bandwidth of 5 to account for heteroskedasticity

and 4 days of overlap in retuarn observations.

   In Panel A, columns (1)–(5) present results with Xt = log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 ) for L = 5, 10, 20, 50,

or 100. The log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 ) significantly predict rt+1,t+5 for L = 20, 50, and 100. The moving

averages of different horizons will mechanically be highly correlated with each other. Hence, to ac-

count for multicollinearity, while also testing whether different MA horizons jointly predict rt+1,t+5 ,

we construct three principal components of the log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 ) and use them as predictors

in Column (6). The first two principal components significantly predict rt+1,t+5 , supporting joint

predictability of information contained in multiple horizon forecasts.

   Panel B presents predictive regressions of the form Eq. (8) using the “common” return predictors

V IX, BILL, T ERM, and DEF . Columns (1)–(5) show that V IX and BILL individually and

significantly predict rt+1,t+5 , and all four predictors jointly predict rt+1,t+5 . Moreover, column (6)

shows that controlling for the four common predictors renders the three PCs of log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 )

insignificant. Thus, it appears that the predictive signals contained in the MA are related to the

equity- and bond-predictor variables. Taken together, the evidence in Panel E initially appears to

suggest that the equity- and bond-return predictors at least partially subsume the technical indica-

tors. However, it is well-established that highly persistent regressors such as V IX, BILL, T ERM,

and DEF can generate spuriously high in-sample return predictability (e.g., Stambaugh, 1999;

Ferson et al., 2003; Campbell and Yogo, 2006); these biases and parameter instabilty often imply

that in-sample estimates poorly capture real-time predictability, which actually impacts investors

(e.g., Goyal and Welch, 2008). For this reason among others, we next assess the out-of-sample

predictability of Bitcoin returns.


C. Out-of-sample predictability

Table 4 presents out-of-sample R2 (ROS
                                    2 ) for recursively estimated predictive regressions of Eq. (8)

                                                         2
at the horizon of h = 7 days. For robustness, we report ROS using several split dates between the


                                                    11
in-sample and out-of-sample periods (e.g., Kelly and Pruitt, 2013). The first five columns of Panels

A and B present results using univariate predictive regressions based on log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 ). The

sixth column (denoted PLS MA) uses the three-pass-regression filter of Kelly and Pruitt (2013)

to combine the predictive information in the log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 ). The last column (denoted
                                                  2
MEAN), follows Rapach et al. (2010) and presents ROS for the MEAN combination forecast,

which is the simple average of the univariate predictive regression-based forecasts (Eq. (8) with

Xit = log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 )). Recent studies show strong evidence of out-of-sample return pre-

dictability using three-pass-filter methodology (e.g., Kelly and Pruitt, 2013; Huang et al., 2015).

Prior evidence however reveals that simple-average forecasts are robust, and frequently outper-

form more sophisticated combination methods in forecasting returns and other macroeconomic

time-series out-of-sample (e.g., Timmermann, 2006; Rapach et al., 2010).

   Panel A shows that several of the log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 ) individually frequently predict returns
                    2
out-of-sample with ROS > 0. Moreover, at each horizon, the MEAN forecasts forecasts predict
                 2 of 1.17%–3.66%, which is high at the weekly horizon. For comparison, Rapach
returns with an ROS
                                 2 but at the quarterly returns on the S&P500, and predictability
et al. (2010) report comparable ROS
                                   2
should increase with horizon. The ROS for the MEAN forecast are significant at the 10% or 5%
                                                2
level for each choice of in-sample period. The ROS for the three-pass-filter forecast range from

0.91%–2.46% and are at least marginally significant when the in-sample period is at least two

years.

   Panel B presents similar results as Panel A, but uses 5-days per week Bitcoin returns so they
                                                                        2
that can be matched with the equity- and bond-predictor variables. The ROS drop relative to

those in Panel A, but remain positive and non-trivial for several of the log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 ) and
                                                                    2 remain at least marginally
the associated three-pass-filter and MEAN forecasts. Moreover, the ROS

significant for the three-pass-filter and MEAN forecasts using the three-year in-sample period.
                                                                             2
   In contrast, Panel C highlights that V IX, BILL, T ERM, and DEF all have ROS < 0 indi-

vidually, regardless of in-sample length. Moreover the PLS forecasts based on these predictors also
      2 < 0 as does the MEAN forecast for all but one in-sample length; both combination pro-
have ROS

cedures are also insignificant for all sample periods. Thus, the technical indicators predict Bitcoin

returns in real time while other common return predictors do not.

   Figure 2 depicts the time-series of differences in cumulative-squared prediction errors for each

                                                 12
forecast in Panel A. An upward slope indicates that the stated forecast is more accurate than the

historical average. Each forecast exhibits sharp swings in predictability during the beginning of the

sample and weak predictability for the 3-year window spanning mid-2013 through mid-2017 before

mostly increasing in the second half of 2017.

   It is not entirely clear from the results in Table 4, however, that multiple MA horizons jointly
                                                                                2 are not greater
predict Bitcoin returns out-of-sample. For example, the combination forecasts’ ROS
                   2
than the greatest ROS of the individual log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 )-based forecasts. Hence, we examine

whether the different out-of-sample forecasts “encompass” each other, that is subsume each oth-

ers’ predictive information or conversely the different strategies contain useful different marginal

information. To demonstrate that the different MA strategies possess different information we use

Harvey, Leybourne and Newbold out-of-sample encompassing tests in Table 5. The null hypothe-

sis is that the out-of-sample forecasts in the column heading encompasses the forecast in the row

implying that the column heading forecasts contain all the relevant information; whereas, the al-

ternative hypothesis (a probability less than .05) is that the column’s forecast does not encompass

the forecast in the row and hence the row forecasts contain additional useful information.

   Results in the first column of Table 5 shows that the historical average forecast does not en-

compass any other forecast; this implies the moving average forecasts and their combinations (PLS

or MEAN) contain useful incremental out-of-sample predictive information. More importantly, not
                                                                            2
one of the log(M At−1 (L)/Pt−1 )-based forecasts that have a corresponding ROS > 0 in Table 4

encompass all of the others. For instance, inspection of the MA20 column indicates that we can

reject that the MA5, MA10, and M100 have similar information; however, we can not reject the

null of encompassing for the MA50, suggesting that only the MA20 and MA50 forecasts contain

similar information. Overall, most different MA horizons add significantly distinct out-of-sample

forecasts information for out-of-sample forecasting of Bitcoin returns.




                                                 13
D. Performance of trading strategies

We define the buy-sell indicator (buy=1, sell=0) associated with each MA strategy as:
                                           
                                           
                                           1, if P
                                           
                                                      t−1 /M At−1 (L) > 1
                                  SL,t =                                                          (9)
                                           
                                           0, otherwise
                                           


The return on the Bitcoin MA strategies on day t are given by:


                    M A(L)
                   rt        = Sn,t · Rt + (1 − Sn,t ) · Rf t , n = 5, 10, 20, 50, 100,          (10)


where rt and rf t denote, respectively, the return on Bitcoin and the risk-free rate on day t. Intu-

itively, the trading strategy defined by Eq. (10) captures the predictability of Bitcoin by short-term

trends discussed theoretically in Section II. We denote the excess return of the buy-and-hold
                                                                                   M A(L)
position in Bitcoin as rxt and the excess return on the MA strategies by rxt                .

   To assess the economic significance of Bitcoin-return predictability to investors, we examine the

performance of the MA strategy’s performance relative to a buy-and-hold position (e.g., Pesaran and

Timmermann, 1995; Cochrane, 2008; Rapach et al., 2010). Table 6 presents summary statistics for

the buy-and-hold and MA strategies. Panel A, which uses the full sample (10/27/2010–1/31/2018),

shows that all strategies are right-skewed and have fat tails. The Sharpe ratio of Bitcoin is 1.9,

which is about five times the historical Sharpe ratio of the stock market (e.g., Cochrane, 2005). All

of the MA strategies further increase this ratio to 2.1 to 2.5. The maximum drawdown of Bitcoin

is 89.5%, while those of the MA strategies are all lower, ranging from 64.3% to 70.3%. Panel B

indicates that the performance of Bitcoin was higher during the first half of the sample, although

the performance gains of the MA strategies are similar in magnitude as those exhibited during the

full sample. Similarly, Panel C shows that the baseline performance of Bitcoin remains strong in

the second half of the sample with a Sharpe ratio of 1.5, however the MA strategies still improve

performance (with Sharpe ratios up to 2.1 and drawdowns reduced from 73.4 to as low as 33.5%).

   Panel A of Figure 3 plots the cumulative value of $1 invested in Bitcoin and the MA10 strategy

at the beginning of the sample. At the end of our sample, the $1 in Bitcoin grew to $103,453 while

the $1 in the buy-and-hold strategy grew to approximately $305,306, a difference of about $200,000


                                                       14
over 7 years! Panel B plots the drawdowns of Bitcoin and the MA10 strategy. As Panel B shows,

the out-performance of the MA strategies relative to the buy and hold largely stems from the MA

strategy having less severe and much shorter drawdowns than the buy-and-hold.

   Table 7 presents average returns of Bitcoin on days when the five moving-average strategies

indicate investment in Bitcoin (IN) and when these strategies indicate investment in Treasury bills

(OUT). The results clearly show that vast majority of positive returns accrue to Bitcoin obtain on

IN days. Moreover, this out-sized performance occurs over both halves of the sample.

   Table 8 formally tests the performance of MA strategies relative to the buy-and-hold. Specifi-

cally, we regress the excess returns of the MA strategies on the buy-and-hold benchmark:


                                          M A(L)
                                    rxt            = α + β · rxt + εt .                               (11)


A positive alpha indicates that access to rxM
                                            t
                                              An increases the maximum possible Sharpe ratio


relative to that of a buy-and-hold Bitcoin position. The ultimate benefit of such increases to an

investor is increased utility from a higher maximum Sharpe ratio for their whole portfolio. Thus,

alpha only matters to the extent that it expands the mean-variance frontier. Intuitively, this

expansion depends on the alpha relative to the residual risk investors must bear to capture it. The
                                                                              M A(L)
maximum Sharpe ratio (SRN ew ) attainable from access to rxt and rxt                   is given by:

                                               s              2
                                                       α                2 ,
                                  SRN ew =                          + SROld                           (12)
                                                      σ(εt )

where SROld is the Sharpe ratio of rxt (e.g., Bodie et al., 2014). Hence, we use the appraisal ratio
       
   α
  σ(εt ) as one measure of the benefits of technical analysis to investors.

   A disadvantage of the appraisal ratio is that its effect on Sharpe ratios is nonlinear. The same

appraisal ratio has a greater impact on a lesser SROld than vice versa. Thus, to further facilitate

comparison across assets, we measure the percentage increase in mean-variance utility, which—for

any level of risk aversion—is equal to:

                                                        2        2
                                                      SRN ew − SROld
                                  Utility gain =             2       .                                (13)
                                                          SROld

Campbell and Thompson (2008) find that timing expected returns on the stock market increases

                                                      15
mean-variance utility by approximately 35%, providing a useful benchmark utility gain.

   Panel A shows that over the entire sample period, the MA strategies earn significant α with

respect to rxt of 0.11% to 0.24% per day. These alphas lead to economically large utility gains of

18.5% to 70.3%. Panel B shows these results remain strong in the second half of the sample.

   Panel C presents results with sampling over the five U.S. business days per week. The αs and

utility gains remain close to those in Panel A. Panel D adds the excess return on the stock market

(M KT ), the Barclay’s Aggregate Bond Index (AGG), and gold over the same sample as Panel C.

These variables proxy for exposure to other major asset classes as well as innovations in important
                                                      M A(L)
macroeconomic news. Panel D shows that the rxt                 has little exposure to the other markets

and in particular, this exposure has no impact on α. Thus, the incremental performance of the

MA strategies relative to the buy-and-hold position is completely unexplained by correlation with

important news that drives other major markets.

   A naive alternative to our discrete buy-or-sell strategies defined by Eq. (10) would be estimating

mean-variance weights using our Bitcoin-return forecasts, and then testing whether the resulting

strategy out-performs the buy-and-hold benchmark (e.g., Marquering and Verbeek, 2004; Campbell

and Thompson, 2008; Huang et al., 2015). However, this approach has several theoretical and

empirical shortcomings relative to our simple MAn strategies. First, the mean-variance weights

assume the investor is choosing between the market return and the risk-free asset. However, Bitcoin

is a poor theoretical proxy to the market portfolio of risky assets. Second, prior to 2017, investors

could not sell Bitcoin short or buy it on margin or via futures contracts. Hence, the weights on

Bitcoin should be constrained between zero and one. Thus, the mean-variance-weights approach

could only outperform the MA strategies by choosing optimal variation between zero and one.

This in turn exacerbates the following two problems: (i) that the mean-variance weights require

at least two estimated forecasts, and therefore come with substantial estimation error, and (ii) the

mean-variance weights assume for tractability the mean-variance functional form of investor utility.

While a common assumption, mean-variance utility is unlikely to precisely capture the behavior of

a representative investor.

   In contrast, our discrete MA strategies satisfy are based on a directly observable out-of-sample

signals and require no estimation error. They also make no assumption about the utility of under-

lying investors. Thus, the strong performance of our MA strategies relative to the buy-and-hold

                                                 16
position already provide evidence of great economic significance of out-of-sample predictability of

Bitcoin returns by technical indicators based on multiple MA horizons. Moreover, this strong

performance relative to the buy-and-hold precludes the need for more sophisticated methods to

demonstrate the economic significance of out-of-sample predictability by technical indicators.


E. Subperiods and major episodes

Despite Bitcoin’s rapid increases over the past few year, its performance has been plagued by several

bear markets. A Fortune magazine article (Roberts, 2017) examines the explanations behind five

major Bitcoin crashes, and a more recent article (Pollack, 2017) details explanations behind the

three bear market crashes of 2017. We briefly summarizes the cause of these downturns from these

articles, and document the performance of our technical trading strategies during these identified

episodes. The evidence clearly shows that the moving average indicators relatively quickly indicated

exit and thus minimized large draw-downs.

   An outage at Mt Gox, the prominent Bitcoin trading platform at the time in April of 2013, lead

to uncertainty about the platform and a collapse in Bitcoin from $230 to $93, a decline of nearly

60%. The MA5, MA10 and MA20 declined however to $165, $125 and 117, or declines of 28%, 46%

and 49%, respectively. Fortune further details the second decline to overzealous US regulators in

the late fall of 2013; Bitcoin fell from $1125 to $522, or nearly 54%. The MA5, MA10 and MA20

declined however to $900, $603 and $820, or declines of 20%, 46% and 27%. Third, the collapse of

Mt Gox then in February 2014 lead to an additional fall from $855 to $598, nearly 40%. The MA5,

MA10 and MA20 declined however to $900, $603 and $820, or declines of 20%, 46% and 27%. In

all three cases, the drawdown’s figure clearly illustrates that the MA predictors quickly indicated

exit and hence saved investors money.

   Fortune and Cointelegraph both discuss the Summer of 2017 due to uncertainty about the hard-

fork of Bitcoin splitting into two coins: Bitcoin and Bitcoin cash. Bitcoin fell from $3019 to $1939,

or approximately 56%. The MA5, MA10 and MA20 declined however to $2605, $2417 and $2183,

or declines of 16%, 25% and 38%. Then the Chinese in September of 2017 threatened to crack

down on Bitcoin, contributing to fall from $4950 to $3003 or 27%. The MA5, MA10 and MA20

declined however to $4663, $3581 and $4217, or declines of 14%, 28% and 15%. Cointelegraph

lastly documents a recent crash attributable to Bitcoin limiting its blocksize, and prompted an exit

                                                 17
to Bitcoin cash which increased 40%, while Bitcoin fell from $7559 to $5857, more than 21%. The

MA5, MA10 and MA20 declined to $7147, $6570, $6337, or falls of 4%, 12% and 15%, respectively.

    During the writing of this article in early 2018, Bitcoin experienced its first downturn of 2018

due in part to crackdown in China and Korea and fears of regulation of the U.S. that began in

mid December. Increased scrutiny by regulators lead to a fall of 59.9%; however, the MA5, MA10

and MA20 experienced losses of 26.4%, 23.7% and 38.8%. Similarly to the above patterns, the MA

strategy relative quickly indicated to sell Bitcoin and hence minimized large losses.6 Overall, in

all seven episodes, the three sharp declines in 2013-2014, the three bear markets of 2017, and the

recent bear market in early 2018, the MA5, MA10 and MA20 decisively outperformed a buy-and-

hold strategy since they relatively quickly indicated exit and hence minimized large losses.


F. Performance of trading strategies applied to Ripple

To examine the robustness of our trading strategy performance, Table 9 presents performance

results similar to those above for Ripple, which is the third largest digital currency by market

capitalization and has existed since 2013.7 Panel A shows that all the MA strategies except MA100

increase Sharpe ratios relative to the buy-and-hold strategy by up to 0.55. Each strategy also

reduces the maximum drawdown of the buy-and-hold by about 10%-24%.

    Figure 4 further shows that the representative MA10 strategy not only substantially limits the

Ripple’s large maximum drawdowns over multiple episodes, but also the duration of drawdowns.

Panel B shows that the MA5, MA10, and MA20 strategies earn significant alpha with respect to

the buy-and-hold Ripple strategy and lead to large utility gains. Overall, the performance of our

MA strategy does not appear unique to Bitcoin.


G. Comparison with NASDAQ

Over our sample, Bitcoin exhibits a substantial run-up in prices, with many market observers

anticipating a crash, citing the eventual bursting of many so-called “bubbles”.8 It is therefore

interesting to assess how MA strategies would help investors improve performance in prior extreme
   6
     These percentages reflect declines to early February, 2018; even if Bitcoin losses continue, the MA indicators
have all indicated exit.
   7
     Ethereum is the second largest by market capitalization but its data began several years after Ripple. Hence,
though the results are similar, we report only those on Ripple for brevity.
   8
     E.g., the “Dutch Tulip mania”, the “dot.com crash”, the “CDO/MBS” crash, etc.


                                                        18
run-ups that were followed by extreme market crashes. The equilibrium theory underlying technical

analysis is not restricted to Bitcoin, so this exercise also assesses the robustness of our MA strategy

results using Bitcoin. We apply each of the MA strategies defined by Eq. (10) to the total return

on the NASDAQ composite index using daily data over the sample 1996–2005, a ten year window

approximately centered around the peak of the NASDAQ “bubble”.

   Bitcoin shares several common features with the NASDAQ in the late 1990s. These include

difficulty valuing the underlying asset with fundamentals and rapid run-ups in price. Thus, the

current intense interest in blockchain technology including its value as a medium of exchange and

its ultimate long-run commercial monetary worth is similar to the frenzy around internet stock

in the late 1990s. Many dot-com companies for years had no earnings and lacked measurable

fundamentals. Several of these companies went bankrupt such as Pets.com, while others proved

commercially viable. If our technical strategies are applied to the NASDAQ during this period,

could they have out-performed a buy-and-hold during the run-up, and could they have avoided

large losses on the way-down? We demonstrate that the answer to both questions is—yes. Hence

the NASDAQ stock price episode provides robust evidence of technical trading for firms in an

industry that is newly emerging without clear fundamentals.

   Figure 5 depicts the performance of the buy-and-hold position in NASDAQ relative to the

MA10 strategy. Panel A shows the MA10 increases more steadily than NASDAQ, avoiding much

of the latter’s peaks and valleys. The MA10 returns $3.66 at the end of 2005 to an investor with

a $1 investment at the beginning of 1996. Conversely, a buy-and-hold investor in NASDAQ would

have about half ($1.85) of the accumulated value. Panel A shows that much of the performance

gains from the MA strategy come from avoiding most of NASDAQ’s large crash in the early 2000’s.

Panel B further shows that the MA10 did not just avoid the largest crash, however. The strategy

avoids the majority of each of the non-trivial NASDAQ drawdown before the crash as well.

   Table 10 documents the performance of the MA strategies applied to the NASDAQ relative to

the buy-and-hold strategy. Results in Panel A show that the MA10, MA20 and MA50 methods

particularly possess mean returns more than four percent greater than the 7.3% buy-and-hold of

the NASDAQ. Further, all five methods substantially boost the NASDAQ Sharpe ratio of 0.25; e.g.,

MA10, MA20 and MA50 possess Sharpe ratios of .65 to .71. The last column documents that the



                                                  19
MA strategies also greatly reduce the maximum drawdown of NASDAQ (77.9%) to 25.7%–44.7%.9

    Panel B of Table 10 presents the alphas, appraisal and utility gain for the NASDAQ. Results

document significant alpha for MA10 to MA100 strategies. It also reveals very high utility gains

for all five strategies; for investors that use the MA10, MA20 and MA50 methods, the utility

gains exceed 600% relative to a buy-and-hold. Overall, the same technical strategies that produce

significant performance improvements in Bitcoin and Ripple also produce significant performance

improvements in NASDAQ, largely by reducing the length and severity of drawdowns.


H. Volume implications of our model

In our model, trading is based on moving-average indicators across different horizons. Testing this

refutable implication provides an opportunity to validate our model’s mechanism in explaining the

predictability of Bitcoin by moving averages of multiple horizons.

    We test for volume generated by technical trading in two ways. First, we evaluate whether

increases in total turnover implied by different MA signals also leads to higher Bitcoin volume.

We measure this total turnover by the sum of the turnover generated by each moving-average
                          P
buy-sell indicator SL,t :   L |∆SL,t |. Second, we evaluate whether disagreement among MA buy-

sell indicators (SL,t ) is associated with higher trading volume. Intuitively, if technical traders

disagree, they will trade with each other. As a measure of disagreement, we use the cross-sectional

standard deviation of the signed turnover implied by each MA strategy, denoted σL (∆SL,T ). For

each measure, Table 11 presents estimations of regressions of the form:


                                  ∆ log(volumet ) = a + b · Xt + c˙|rt | + εt ,                               (14)


where the Xt denotes one or both of our two volume-inducing variables. Because large price

shocks are the main empirical determinant of volume and are likely correlated with our price-based

indicators, we also control for the absolute value of returns (see, e.g., Karpoff, 1987). We use change

in log volume as the dependent variable because the level of volume is not stationary.

    Results in column (1) of Table 11 demonstrate that increases in turnover across multiple horizons
   9
     We also applied our strategies to the Nasdaq over the past ten years using our framework, which follows the
maturation of internet-based technologies and an increased understanding of fundamentals. These untabulated results
show that the MA strategies no longer earn significant alpha or produce Sharpe ratio gains.



                                                        20
lead to increases in volume, controlling for price shocks. Then, column (2) shows that increases

in disagreement among MA traders also leads to significant increases in volume. Finally, column

(3) indicates that turnover and disagreement across MA traders jointly predicts volume, with both

measures positively related to volume. Overall, the results in Table 11 are consistent with traders

using MA strategies significantly impacting trading volume in Bitcoin.



V. Conclusion

Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies are increasingly attracting attention from investors and financial in-

stitutions. This has lead for instance to recent Bitcoin ETF trading by large financial institutions

such as Fidelity and futures trading in the US. Yet, there is a lack of both empirical and theoretical

evidence on the investment properties of Bitcoin.

   Since Bitcoin has no obvious fundamentals to analyze, it is therefore a natural laboratory to use

technical analysis. In this paper, we propose a new theory that predicts that moving averages of

prices over different horizons should jointly predict Bitcoin returns. Predictive regressions confirm

the joint predictability of Bitcoin returns by moving averages over multiple horizons. Moreover,

combining these signals yields significant out-of-sample predictability. Simple real-time trading

strategies that exploit this predictability significantly outperform the buy-and-hold position in

Bitcoin, with increases in Sharpe ratio of 0.2–0.6. We show technical strategies relative to a buy-

and-hold stems from its ability to exit a down market, thereby decreasing the length and severity

of drawdowns. We further test an implication from our model and find that increases in turnover

from differences in signals across multiple horizons boosts trading volume.

   Bitcoin skeptics argue that the behavior of cryptocurrency prices resembles that of the NASDAQ

“bubble”. Applying the same trading strategies to the NASDAQ index around the rise and fall in

the early 2000’s would have spared investors from much of the crash. Our trading-strategy results

suggest that if Bitcoin exhibits a massive devaluation similar to that of “bursting of the NASDAQ

bubble”, technical analysis could protect investors from much of resulting losses.




                                                 21
Appendix: Proof of Proposition 1

In this appendix, we present the proof of Proposition 1.

    First we provide the evolution equations for conditional expectation and the conditional vari-

ance. Following the standard filtering theory, ∀i = 1, 2, Mti satisfies


                            dMti = µ(X̄ − Mti )dt + σM
                                                     i       i
                                                       (t)dẐ1t , M0i = M i (0− ),                              (A.1)


        i is the (observable) innovation processes satisfying
where Ẑ1t

                                                       Z t
                                            i             Xs − Msi
                                          Ẑ1t =                   ds + Z1t ,
                                                        0    σδ

             i
 i (t) = V (t) + ρσ , V i (t) ≡ E[(X − M i )2 |F i ] is the conditional variance of X satisfying
σM        σδ       X                t   t       t                                    t


                                                                                2
                   dV i (t)
                                                         
                                                             1 i
                            = −2µV i (t) + σX
                                            2
                                              −                 V (t) + ρσX          , V i (0) = V i (0− ).     (A.2)
                     dt                                      σδ

This implies that
                                        dδt
                                            = Mti dt + σδ dẐ1t
                                                             i
                                                                , i = 1, 2.                                     (A.3)
                                        δt

    Next we derive the optimal trading strategy and equilibrium Bitcoin price. As in Detemple

(1986), Gennotte (1986), and Detemple (1991), the investor’s problem is separable in inference and

optimization.10 In particular, given the initial endowment ηi > 0 and the prior (Mi (0− ), Vi (0− )),

Investor i’s portfolio selection problem is equivalent to

                                                         Z T
                                            max E                e−βt log Cti dt,
                                             θi ,C i         0


subject to

                              dWt = rt Wt dt + θti (µit − rt )dt + θti σδ dẐ1t
                                                                             i
                                                                                − Cti dt.                       (A.4)
   10
     The separation principle trivially applies because the objective function is independent of the unobservable state
variable (see, e.g., Fleming and Rishel (1975, Chap. 4, Sec. 11) .




                                                                 22
Define πti as the state price density for investor i. Then


                                       dπti = −rt πti dt − κit πti dẐ1t
                                                                      i
                                                                         ,                      (A.5)


where κit is the price of risk perceived by investor i, i.e.,

                                                         µit − rt
                                                 κit =            .                             (A.6)
                                                             σ

Using the standard dual approach (e.g., Cox and Huang, 1989) to solve Investor i’s problem, we

have

                                              e−βt (Cti )−1 = λi πti .                          (A.7)

Define
                                                          λ1 πt1
                                                   αt =                                         (A.8)
                                                          λ2 πt2

to be the ratio of the marginal utilities. Then αt evolves as

                                                              µ1t − µ2t       η2
                             dαt = −αt µdt dẐ1t
                                              1
                                                 , µdt =                , α0 = ,                (A.9)
                                                                  σ           η1

where the first equality is from Ito’s lemma and the consistency condition (i.e., the Bitcoin price is

the same across all investors):
                                           µ1t − µ2t  M 1 − Mt2
                                                     = t        ,
                                               σ          σδ

and the last equality follows from the budget constraints.

   By market clearing condition Ct1 + Ct2 = δt , we have

                                                 δt            αt δ t
                                      Ct1 =           , Ct2 =         ,
                                               1 + αt         1 + αt

                                               αt                    1
                              κ1t = σδ +           µd , κ2t = σδ −       µd ,
                                             1 + αt t              1 + αt t
                                               1            αt
                                  rt = β +          Mt1 +       M 2 − σδ2 .
                                             1 + αt       1 + αt t




                                                         23
Therefore, the fraction of wealth invested in the Bitcoin by Investor 1 is


                                                         κ1t /σ,


i.e.,
                                                           αt µdt
                                                    1+            ,                            (A.10)
                                                         1 + αt σ

and by Investor 2 is
                                                           1 µdt
                                                    1−            .                            (A.11)
                                                         1 + αt σ

So if µdt > 0, i.e., Investor 1 is more optimistic than Investor 2, then Investor 1 borrows to buy the

Bitcoin, and Investor 2 sells the Bitcoin and lends.

    The Bitcoin price
                                                                 1 − e−β(T −t)
                                               Z T
                                                     πs1
                                  Bt = Et1               δs ds =               δt ,
                                                t    πt1              β

which implies that

                                 dBt = ((β + Mti )Bt − δt )dt + σδ Bt dẐ1t
                                                                         i
                                                                            ,

                                                             Mt1 − Mt2
                                  µit = β + Mti , µdt =                , σ = σδ .
                                                                 σδ

This implies that

                                                                                  
                          i      1                                    β        1 2
                       dẐ1t =         d log Bt − Mti −                      −  σ   dt .
                                 σδ                             1 − e−β(T −t) 2 δ

    Investor 1’s wealth is

                                                          1 − e−β(T −t) 1
                                       Z T
                                             πs1 1                            1
                        W1t = Et1              1 C s ds =              Ct =        Bt
                                        t    πt                β            1 + αt

and Investor 2’s wealth is

                                                          1 − e−β(T −t) 2
                                      Z T
                                             πs2 2                            αt
                        W2t = Et1              2 C s ds =              Ct =        Bt .
                                        t    πt                β            1 + αt




                                                           24
The number of Bitcoin Investor 1 holds is equal to

                                              αt µdt          1           αt µdt
                       N1t = W1t (1 +                )/Bt =        (1 +          ).
                                            1 + αt σ        1 + αt      1 + αt σ

The number of Bitcoin Investor 2 holds is equal to

                                              1 µdt           αt          1 µdt
                       N2t = W2t (1 −                )/Bt =        (1 −          ).
                                            1 + αt σ        1 + αt      1 + αt σ

We have
                                     ∂N1t   −(1 + αt ) + (1 − αt )µdt /σδ
                                          =                               ,
                                     ∂αt            (1 + αt )3

which is < 0 if and only if
                                                          µdt /σδ − 1
                                                   αt >               .
                                                          µdt /σδ + 1

   Next we derive the expression of the conditional expectation Mti in the form of moving averages.

We have

                                dMti = (ai (t) − bi (t)Mti )dt + ci (t)d log Bt ,                         (A.12)

where
                                                                         
                                 i                              β     1 2 i
                               a (t) = µX̄ +                         + σ c (t),
                                                        1 − e−β(T −t) 2 δ
                                                                            i (t)
                                                                           σM
                                      bi (t) = µ + ci (t), ci (t) =               .
                                                                             σδ

Equation (A.12) implies that

                                                          Z t
                                      Mti = hi (t) +            f i (u, t)d log Bu ,
                                                            0


where
                                           Z t
                             − 0t bi (s)ds
                              R                          Ru i                              Ru i
                   i
                 h (t) = e                       ai (u)e 0 b (s)ds du, f i (u, t) = ci (u)e t b (s)ds .
                                           0




                                                            25
Then by integration by parts, we have

                                                               Z t
        Mti        i       i                 i
              = h (t) − f (0, t) log B0 + c (t) log Bt −          log Bu df i (u, t)
                                                                0
                                                                                   Rt              i
                                                                                                               !
                   i       i         Bt                                                  0 log Bu g (u, t)du
              = h (t) + f (0, t) log    + (f i (t, t) − f i (0, t)) log Bt −                Rt                     ,
                                     B0                                                         i
                                                                                             0 g (u, t)du
                                                                                                                       (A.13)


where
                                                          ∂f i (u, t)
                                           g i (u, t) =               .
                                                             ∂u
                                                                          Rt  i
                                                                          0 gR (u,t) log Bu du
It can be shown that g i (u, t) > 0 for any u and t, and thus                   t i              is a weighted average of
                                                                               0 g (u,t)du

log(Bu ) over the interval [0, t]. In addition, this implies that f i (t, t) − f i (0, t) > 0 for any t. This

complete the proof of Proposition 1.




                                                      26
References
Ang, A. and Bekaert, G. (2007), Stock return predictability: is it there?, Review of Financial Studies
 20, 651–707.

Athey, S., Parashkevov, I., Sarukkai, V. and Xia, J. (2016), Bitcoin pricing, adoption, and usage:
  Theory and evidence. Stanford University working paper.

Balvers, R. and McDonald, B. (2018), Designing a global digital currency. Working paper.

Biais, B., Bisiere, C., Bouvard, M. and Casamatta, C. (2018), The blockchain folk theorem.
  Toulouse School of Economics working paper.

Bodie, Z., Kane, A. and Marcus, A. J. (2014), Investments, 10th edn, McGraw Hill, Ohio.

Böhme, R., Christin, N., Edelman, B. and Moore, T. (2015), Bitcoin: Economics, technology, and
  governance, Journal of Economic Perspectives 29, 213238.

Bolt, W. and van Oordt, M. R. C. (2016), On the value of virtual currencies. Bank of Canada
  working paper.

Brock, W., Lakonishok, J. and LeBaron, B. (1992), Simple technical trading rules and the stochastic
  properties of stock returns, Journal of Finance 47, 17311764.

Brogaard, J. and Detzel, A. (2015), The asset-pricing implications of government economic policy
  uncertainty, Management Science 61, 3–18.

Brown, D. P. and Jennings, R. H. (1989), On technical analysis, Review of Financial Studies
  2, 527551.

Campbell, J. Y. and Thompson, S. B. (2008), Predicting excess stock returns out of sample: can
  anything beat the historical average?, Review of Financial Studies 21, 1509–1531.

Campbell, J. Y. and Yogo, M. (2006), Efficient tests of stock return predictability, Journal of
  Financial Economics 81, 27–60.

Catalini, C. and Gans, J. S. (2017), Some simple economics of the blockchain. MIT working paper.

Cespa, G. and Vives, X. (2012), Dynamic trading and asset prices: Keynes vs. hayek, Review of
  Economic Studies 79, 539580.

Chiarella, C., He, X.-Z. and Hommes, C. (2006), A dynamic analysis of moving average rules,
 Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control 30, 17291753.

Chiu, J. and Koeppl, T. V. (2017), The economics of cryptocurrencies—bitcoin and beyond. Bank
 of Canada working paper.

Cochrane, J. H. (2005), Asset Pricing, Princeton University Press, Princeton, N.J.

Cochrane, J. H. (2008), The dog that did not bark: a defense of return predictability, Review of
  Financial Studies 21, 1533–1575.

Cong, L. W. and He, Z. (2018), Blockchain disruption and smart contracts. University of Chicago
  working paper.


                                                 27
Cox, J. C. and Huang, C. (1989), Optimal consumption and portfolio policies when asset prices
  follow a diffusion process, Journal of Economic Theory 49, 33–83.

Detemple, J. B. (1986), Asset pricing in a production economy with incomplete information, Journal
  of Finance 41, 383–391.

Detemple, J. B. (1991), Further results on asset pricing with incomplete information, Journal of
  Economic Dynamics and Control 15, 425–453.

Dwyer, G. P. (2015), The economics of Bitcoin and similar private digital currencies, Journal of
 Financial Stability 17, 81–91.

Easley, D., OHara, M. and Basu, S. (2017), From mining to markets: The evolution of bitcoin
  transaction fees. Cornell University working paper.

Edmans, A., Goldstein, I. and Jiang, W. (2015), Feedback effects, asymmetric trading, and the
  limits to arbitrage , 105, 3766–3797.

Eha, B. P. (2017), How Money Got Free, Oneworld Publications Ltd, London, UK.

Fernández-Villaverde, J. and Sanches, D. (2017), Can currency competition work? University of
  Pennsylvania working paper.

Ferson, W. E., Sarkissian, S. and Simin, T. T. (2003), Spurious regressions in financial economics?,
  Journal of Finance 58, 1393–1413.

Foley, S., Karlsen, J. R. and Putnins, T. J. (2018), Sex, drugs, and bitcoin: How much illegal
  activity is financed through cryptocurrencies? Working paper.

Gandal, N., Hamrick, J., Moore, T. and Oberman, T. (2018), Price manipulation in the bitcoin
 ecosystem, Journal of Monetary Economics (forthcoming).

Gennotte, G. (1986), Optimal portfolio choice under incomplete information, Journal of Finance
 41, 733–746.

Goyal, A. and Welch, I. (2008), A comprehensive look at the empirical performance of equity
 premium prediction, Review of Financial Studies 21, 1455–1508.

Han, Y., Yang, K. and Zhou, G. (2013), A new anomaly: The cross-sectional profitability of
 technical analysis, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 48, 1433–1461.

Han, Y., Zhou, G. and Zhu, Y. (2016), A trend factor: Any economic gains from using information
 over investment horizons?, Journal of Financial Economics 122, 352–375.

Harvey, C. R. (2017), Bitcoin myths and facts. Duke University working paper.

Hong, H. and Stein, J. C. (1999), A unified theory of underreaction, momentum trading, and
 overreaction in asset markets, Journal of Finance 54, 2143–2184.

Huang, D., Jiang, F., Tu, J. and Zhou, G. (2015), Investor sentiment aligned: A powerful predictor
 of stock returns, Review of Financial Studies 28, 791–837.

Huberman, G., Leshno, J. D. and Moallemi, C. C. (2017), Monopoly without a monopolist: An
 economic analysis of the bitcoin payment system. Columbia Business School working paper.

                                                28
Jermann, U. J. (2018), Bitcoin and cagan’s model of hyperinflation. University of Pennsylvania
  working paper.

Karpoff, J. M. (1987), The relation between price changes and trading volume: A survey, Journal
 of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 22, 109–126.

Kelly, B. and Pruitt, S. (2013), Market expectations in the cross-section of present values, Journal
 of Finance 68, 1721–1756.

Lo, A. W. and Hasanhodzic, J. (2009), The heretics of finance: Conversations with leading practi-
  tioners of technical analysis. Bloomberg Press.

Lo, A. W. and Mackinlay, A. C. (1989), The size and power of the variance ratio tests in finite
  samples: A monte carlo investigation, Journal of Econometrics 40, 203–238.

Lo, A. W., Mamaysky, H. and Wang, J. (2000), Foundations of technical analysis: Computational
  algorithms, statistical inference, and empirical implementation, Journal of Finance 55, 1705–
  1770.

Malinova, K. and Park, A. (2017), Market design with blockchain technology. University of Toronto
 working paper.

Marquering, W. and Verbeek, M. (2004), The economic value of predicting stock index returns and
 volatility, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 39, 407–429.

Neely, C. J., Rapach, D. E., Tu, J. and Zhou, G. (2014), Forecasting the equity risk premium: The
  role of technical indicators, Management Science 60, 1772–1791.

Newey, W. K. and West, K. D. (1987), A simple, positive semi-definite, heteroskedasticity and
  autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix, Econometrica 55, 703–708.

Pagnotta, E. S. and Buraschi, A. (2018), An equilibrium valuation of bitcoin and decentralized
  network assets. Imperial College working paper.

Pesaran, M. H. and Timmermann, A. (1995), Predictability of stock returns: Robustness and
  economic significance, Journal of Finance 50, 1201–1228.

Pollack, D. (2017), Counting costs of bitcoin’s big three drops of 2017. Cointegraph.
  https://cointelegraph.com/news/counting-costs-of-bitcoins-big-three-drops-of-2017

Poterba, J. and Summers, L. (1988), Mean reversion in stock prices: Evidence and implications,
  Journal of Financial Economics 22, 27–59.

Prat, J. and Walter, B. (2016), An equilibrium model of the market for bitcoin mining. CESifo
  working paper.

Rapach, D. E., Strauss, J. K. and Zhou, G. (2010), Out-of-sample equity premium prediction:
  combination forecasts and links to the real economy, Review of Financial Studies 23, 821–862.

Roberts, J. J. (2017), 5 big bitcoin crashes: What we learned. Fortune.
  http://fortune.com/2017/09/18/bitcoin-crash-history

Saleh, F. (2017), Blockchain without waste: Proof-of-stake. NYU working paper.


                                                29
Schwager, J. D. (1989), Market Wizards, John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, New Jersey.

Stambaugh, R. F. (1999), Predictive regressions, Journal of Financial Economics 54, 375–421.

Timmermann, A. (2006), Forecast combinations, in G. Elliott, C. W. J. Granger and A. Timmer-
  mann, eds, Handbook of Economic Forecasting, Vol. 1, Elsevier, North-Holland, Amsterdam,
  chapter 4, 135–196.

Treynor, J. L. and Ferguson, R. (1985), In defense of technical analysis, Journal of Finance 40, 757–
  773.

Yermack, D. (2013), Is bitcoin a real currency? an economic appraisal. NBER working paper.

Yermack, D. (2017), Corporate governance and blockchains, Review of Finance 21, 7–31.




                                                 30
                       200000

                       150000
         Bitcoin ($)




                       100000

                        50000

                           0
                                2010   2011   2012   2013    2014   2015   2016   2017   2018

                                                       BTC            S&P 500




Figure 1: Value of $1 invested in Bitcoin or S&P500 on 7/18/2010




                                                        31
                                    MA5                                                          MA10
         .2




                                                                      .5
         .1




                                                                      0
         0
         -.1




                                                                      -.5
         -.2
         -.3




                                                                      -1
               2012   2013   2014    2015   2016   2017   2018              2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   2018




                                    MA20                                                         MA50




                                                                      1.5
         1




                                                                      1
         .5




                                                                      .5
         0
         -.5




                                                                      0
                                                                      -.5
         -1




               2012   2013   2014    2015   2016   2017   2018              2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   2018




                                    MA100                                                        3PRF
         1




                                                                      1
         .5




                                                                      .5
         0
         -.5




                                                                      0




               2012   2013   2014    2015   2016   2017   2018              2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   2018




                                    MEAN
         1
         .5
         0
         -.5




               2012   2013   2014    2015   2016   2017   2018




Figure 2: Cumulative squared forecast errors of Bitcoin returns based on historical-average fore-
casts minus those of MA strategies




                                                                 32
                                             400000




                         Cumulative return
                                             300000


                                             200000


                                             100000


                                                     0
                                                         2010      2011      2012      2013     2014    2015      2016   2017   2018

                                                                                 Bitcoin buy-hold               Bitcoin MA10




                                                           Panel (A): Cumulative returns
                                       10080
                          Cumulative return
                         20  40     60 0




                                                  2010      2011      2012          2013      2014     2015      2016    2017   2018

                                                                    Bitcoin Drawdown                    Bitcoin MA10 Drawdown




                                                                    Panel (B): Drawdowns


                                             1

                                             .8
                         Proportion




                                             .6

                                             .4

                                             .2

                                             0
                                                  2010      2011          2012      2013      2014     2015      2016    2017   2018

                                                                                       MA 5                   MA 10
                                                                                       MA 50




                             Panel (C): Proportion of days long in Bitcoin

Figure 3: Performance of investment in Bitcoin buy-and-hold and MA strategies.
Panel A presents cumulative returns to $1 invested in the buy-and-hold and MA10 Bitcoin strategies
on 7/18/2010. Panel B presents drawdowns of each strategy in Panel A. Panel C presents the
proportion of days each month that the MA strategies listed invest in Bitcoin as opposed to the
risk-free rate.


                                                                                           33
                     100      80
              Cumulative return
             20  40  0  60




                                   2014    2015               2016         2017          2018

                                          XRP Drawdown               XRP MA10 Drawdown




Figure 4: Drawdowns of buy-and-hold and MA10 strategies applied to Ripple.
This figure presents drawdowns of the buy-and-hold and MA10 strategies applied to Ripple from
11/12/2013 through 1/31/2018.




                                                         34
                                5
            Cumulative return


                                4


                                3


                                2


                                1
                                    1996    1998           2000        2002        2004     2006

                                                   NASDAQ buy-hold            NASDAQ MA10




                                              Panel (A): Cumulative returns
                          80
            Cumulative return
            20    40      60
                          0




                                    1996    1998           2000        2002        2004     2006

                                           NASDAQ Drawdown               NASDAQ MA10 Drawdown




                                                     Panel (B): Drawdowns

Figure 5: Performance of investment in NASDAQ buy-and-hold and MA10 strategies.
Panel A presents cumulative returns to $1 invested in the buy-and-hold and MA10 NASDAQ
strategies on 1/2/1996 through 12/30/2005. Panel B presents drawdowns of each strategy.




                                                                  35
Table 1: Summary statistics

Panel A of this Table presents summary statistics of the returns in excess of the 1-day risk-free
rate on Bitcoin (BTC), the U.S. stock market (MKT), the Barclays aggregate bond market index
(AGG), and gold. Means, standard deviations, and Sharpe ratios are annualized. Panel B presents
summary statistics of other relevant variables. AR1 denotes the first-order autoregressive
coefficient and 𝑝"# denotes the p-value from an augmented Dickey-Fuller test for the null of a
unit root. The sample period is daily from 10/27/2010−1/31/2018. Bitcoin returns trade 7 days
a week and have 2654 observations during the sample period. Other variables are available only
5 days a week and have 1,896 observations during this period.

                                       Panel A: Returns
          Mean(%)     SD(%)    Sharpe Min(%) Max(%)            Skewness    Kurtosis     AR1
 BTC       213.58     111.04     1.92    -38.83      52.89        0.92      15.65        0.06
 MKT       14.43       14.6      0.99     -6.97       4.97       -0.45       8.23       -0.08
 AGG         2.68      3.27      0.82     -1.01       0.74        -0.3       4.13       -0.05
 GOLD       -0.69      16.2     -0.04     -9.07       4.69       -0.52       8.71       -0.03
                                  Panel B: Predictor variables
          Mean(%)     SD(%)    Min(%) Max(%)        Skewness    Kurtosis     AR1         𝑝𝑑𝑓
 VIX       16.29       5.55      9.14   48            2.05       8.42        0.96         0
 BILL       0.23       0.34     -0.02  1.45            2         5.94         1           1
 TERM       2.05       0.59       1    3.6            0.42        2.5         1          0.45
 DEF        0.96       0.25      0.53  1.54           0.53       2.22         1          0.62
Table 2: Variance ratio tests of the random walk hypothesis

The variance ratios are denoted 𝑉𝑅 (𝑞) with the corresponding heteroscedasticity-robust test
statistics and p-values denoted 𝑧 ∗ and 𝑝𝑧∗ , respectively. Under the random walk null hypothesis,
the value of the variance ratio is 1 and the test statistics have a standard normal distribution
(asymptotically). The sample period is 7/18/2010−1/31/2018.

                      q                𝑉𝑅(𝑞)           𝑧∗𝑠         𝑝𝑧∗
                      14               1.237         1.623        0.104
                      28               1.575         2.967        0.003
                      56                 2           3.919          0
                      112              2.211         3.649          0
Table 3: In-sample predictability of Bitcoin returns

This table presents estimates of predictive regressions of the form: 𝑟-./,-.1 = 𝑎 + 𝑏′𝑋- + 𝜖-./,-.1 ,
where 𝑟-./,-.1 denotes the log return on Bitcoin over business days 𝑡 + 1 through 𝑡 + 5 (one week).
We use present Newey and West (1987) standard errors below the point estimates to correct for
heteroscedasticity and serial correlation in return observations. In Panel A, the predictors are the
log moving average/price ratios (log(𝑀𝐴(𝐿)⁄𝑃 )) or their first three principal components
(𝑃𝐶1, 𝑃𝐶2, 𝑜𝑟 𝑃𝐶3). In Panel B, the predictors include these principal components along with the
other return predictors (VIX, BILL, TERM, and DEF). The sample period is 7/18/2010—
1/31/2018 (𝑛 = 1896).

         Panel A: Predictability of Bitcoin returns by log moving average/price ratios
                           (1)        (2)        (3)         (4)        (5)             (6)
 log(𝑀𝐴𝑡 (5)/𝑃𝑡 )          -17.90                                                𝑃𝐶1𝑡 -1.36
                           (-14.43)                                                     (0.64)
 log(𝑀𝐴𝑡 (10)/𝑃𝑡 )                    -18.10                                     𝑃𝐶2𝑡 1.67
                                      (-12.75)                                          (-0.79)
 log(𝑀𝐴𝑡 (20)/𝑃𝑡 )                               -17.95                          𝑃𝐶3𝑡 1.36
                                                 (-8.47)                                (1.86)
 log(𝑀𝐴𝑡 (50)/𝑃𝑡 )                                           -12.00
                                                             (-4.60)
 log(𝑀𝐴𝑡 (100)/𝑃𝑡 )                                                     -6.61
                                                                        (-2.95)
 𝑅2                        0.00       0.01       0.03        0.04       0.03            0.04
            Panel B: Predictability of Bitcoin returns by common return predictors
                                               (1)        (2)      (3)   (4)      (5)       (6)
 𝑉𝐼𝑋𝑡                                         -1.84                              -2.54     -1.74
                                             (-0.65)                            (-0.80) (-0.94)
 𝐵𝐼𝐿𝐿𝑡                                                    0.73                    2.14      1.55
                                                         (0.65)                 (1.06)    (1.27)
 𝑇𝐸𝑅𝑀𝑡                                                            0.99            2.94     2.19
                                                                 (0.86)         (1.18)    (1.30)
 𝐷𝐸𝐹𝑡                                                                   -0.49     2.05     1.54
                                                                        (-.58) (0.77)     (0.92)
 𝑃𝐶1𝑡                                                                                      -1.01
                                                                                         (-0.69)
 𝑃𝐶2𝑡                                                                                       1.09
                                                                                          (0.92)
 𝑃𝐶3𝑡                                                                                       1.86
                                                                                          (2.02)
 𝑅2                                            0.02       0.01    0.00   0.00     0.04      0.05
Table 4: Out-of-sample predictability of Bitcoin-returns

This table presents out-of-sample 𝑅2 for predictive regressions of the form: 𝑟-./,-.D = 𝑎 + 𝑏′𝑋- +
𝜖-./,-.D , where 𝑟-./,-.D denotes the log return on Bitcoin over (calendar) days 𝑡 + 1 through 𝑡 + 7.
𝑇G denotes the in-sample period in days. In columns denoted MA𝐿, the only predictor is
log(𝑀𝐴(𝐿)/𝑃). In columns denoted 3PRF, the forecast is based on the 3-pass regression filter of
Kelly and Pruitt (2013) using all five log(𝑀𝐴(𝐿)/𝑃). In columns denoted MEAN, the forecast is
the simple average of the five forecasts based on each log(𝑀𝐴(𝐿)/𝑃). Panel A presents results
using 7-day frequency. Panel B presents similar results as Panel A for 5-day-per week data to
facilitate comparison with Panel C, which presents results using VIX, BILL, DEF, and TERM as
predictors. The in-sample plus out-of-sample period is 10/27/2010−1/31/2018 (n=2,654 in Panel
A, and n=1,823 in Panels B and C). Brackets present p-values for the null that the adjacent out-
of-sample 𝑅H is zero.

                              Panel A: 7-day-per-week observations
  𝑇0      MA5      MA10       MA20      MA50      MA100          3PRF                  MEAN
 365      -0.41    -1.28        0.15      1.46      0.65      0.91 [.124]            1.17 [.050]
 730      -0.28    -1.12        0.57      1.68      1.53      1.71 [.067]            1.37 [.098]
 1095      0.56     2.04        4.23      3.91      2.87      2.46 [.033]            3.66 [.016]
                              Panel B: 5-day-per-week observations
   𝑇0     MA5      MA10       MA20      MA50      MA100          3PRF                  MEAN
  252     -0.82     -2.7       -1.02      0.63      0.17      0.54 [.098]            0.22 [.249]
  504     -0.56    -2.49       -0.68      0.7       0.83      1.07 [.088]            0.35 [.277]
  756      0.71     2.38        4.33      3.69      2.64      2.16 [.055]            3.6 [.022]
                              Panel C: 5-day-per-week observations
   𝑇0     VIX       BILL      TERM       DEF                    3PRFcro              MEANcro
  252     -5.61     -2.19      -7.56     -4.46                -5.45 [.541]          -1.31 [.343]
  504     -1.89     -1.65      -3.32     -2.36                 -1.9 [.333]          -0.07 [.282]
  756     -3.56     -3.73      -2.94     -3.64                -3.61 [.503]          -0.85 [.516]
Table 5: Encompassing tests

This table reports p-values for the Harvey, Leybourne, and Newbold (1998) statistic. The statistic
corresponds to a one-sided (upper-tail) test of the null hypothesis that the 7-day Bitcoin-return
forecast defined in the column heading encompasses the forecast defined by the row heading,
against the alternative hypothesis that the forecast given in the column does not encompass the
forecast given in the row. The forecasts are the out-of-sample forecasts defined in Table 4 Panel
A along with the historical-average forecast (𝑟̅ ). The sample period is 10/27/2010−1/31/2018 with
an in-sample period of 𝑇G = 730.

                   𝑟L    MA5      MA10     MA20     MA50     MA100       3PRF         MEAN
 L𝑟                      0.349    0.274    0.313    0.302    0.352       0.389        0.402
  MA5            0.000            0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000       0.000        0.000
  MA10           0.000   0.999             0.000    0.000    0.000       0.000        0.000
  MA20           0.000   0.997    0.998             0.000    0.000       0.000        0.989
  MA50           0.000   0.720    0.703    0.672             0.960       0.344        1.000
  MA100          0.000   0.270    0.160    0.000    0.000                0.001        0.995
  3PRF           0.000   0.188    0.112    0.001    0.000     0.852                   0.811
  MEAN           0.000   0.764    0.234    0.000    0.000     0.000      0.000
Table 6: Performance of Bitcoin trading strategies

This table presents summary statistics of the returns in excess of the 1-day risk-free rate on Bitcoin
(BTC) and each of the MA(𝐿) Bitcoin strategies. Means, standard deviations, and Sharpe ratios
are annualized. The sample period is daily from 10/27/2010−1/31/2018. Panel A presents full
sample results (n=2,654). Panels B and C, respectively, present results for the first and second
halves (n=1,327) of the sample. MDD denotes maximum drawdown.

                                     Panel A: Full-sample
           Mean(%) SD(%) Sharpe Min(%) Max(%) Skewness                   Kurtosis MDD(%)
 BTC          213.58 111.04        1.92     -38.83    52.89       0.92      15.65   89.48
 MA5          209.78    83.59      2.51     -29.41    52.89       2.62      31.84   66.44
 MA10         208.49     85.1      2.45     -38.83    52.89       2.21      32.38   69.75
 MA20         196.91    86.13      2.29     -38.83    52.89       2.08      31.71   64.25
 MA50         195.98    91.81      2.13     -38.83    52.89        1.6      26.03   70.28
 MA100        203.37    97.54      2.09     -38.83    52.89       1.61      22.76   70.28
                     Panel B: First-half (10/27/2010-6/25/2014, n=1,327)
           Mean(%) SD(%) Sharpe Min(%) Max(%) Skewness                   Kurtosis MDD(%)
 BTC          349.71    142.6      2.45     -38.83    52.89       0.81      11.53   89.48
 MA5           339.7 108.66        3.13     -29.41    52.89       2.25      22.44   66.44
 MA10         331.54 111.98        2.96     -38.83    52.89       1.77      22.07   69.75
 MA20         316.66 114.11        2.77     -38.83    52.89        1.7       21.3   64.25
 MA50         309.67 121.24        2.55     -38.83    52.89       1.33      17.68   70.28
 MA100        341.12 127.76        2.67     -38.83    52.89       1.37      15.68   70.28
                     Panel C: Second-half (6/26/2014-1/31/2018, n=1,327)
           Mean(%) SD(%) Sharpe Min(%) Max(%) Skewness                   Kurtosis MDD(%)
 BTC          104.64    71.95      1.45      -21.9    25.41       0.18       9.39   73.37
 MA5          108.74    51.97      2.09     -14.24    25.41       1.63      17.84   34.28
 MA10         103.43    51.12      2.02     -11.13    25.41       1.68      18.53    33.5
 MA20          95.15    50.04       1.9     -11.13    22.97       0.93      14.17   38.76
 MA50         100.65    55.77       1.8     -16.51    22.97       0.52      11.91   34.71
 MA100         88.96    61.37      1.45     -16.73    25.41       0.39       12.7   46.77
Table 7: Returns to Bitcoin when MA strategies are invested vs not invested

This table presents average returns to Bitcoin on days when the MA(𝐿) strategy defined in the
column heading is long Bitcoin (IN) and days when the strategy is not (OUT). The sample period
is daily from 10/27/2010−1/32/2018. Panel A presents full sample results (n=2,654). Panels B
and C, respectively, present results for the first and second halves (n=1,327) of the sample.

                                    Panel A: Full sample
            All Days       MA5          MA10          MA20          MA50          MA100
 OUT         0.59%         0.01%        0.01%         0.05%         0.05%         0.03%
 IN                        0.58%        0.57%         0.54%         0.54%         0.56%
                                     Panel B: First half
 OUT         0.90%         0.06%        0.07%         0.17%         0.25%          0.04%
 IN                        1.41%        1.37%         1.31%         1.20%          1.23%
                                    Panel C: Second Half
 OUT         0.29%         -0.01%       0.00%         0.03%         0.01%          0.04%
 IN                        0.30%        0.28%         0.26%         0.28%          0.24%
Table 8: Alphas of MA Bitcoin strategies relative to buy-and-hold benchmark and other asset
classes

                                                          PQ(R)
Panels A, B and C presents regressions of the form: 𝑟𝑥-         = 𝛼 + 𝛽UVW ⋅ 𝑟𝑥-UVW + 𝜖- , where 𝑟𝑥-
                                                                     PQ(R)
denotes the day-𝑡 buy-and-hold excess return on Bitcoin and 𝑟𝑥-            denotes the excess return
on the MA(𝐿) Bitcoin strategy. Beneath each regression is the Sharpe ratio and appraisal ratio of
                                                             PQ(R)
the MA strategy as well as the utility gain from access to 𝑟𝑥-     . Panel A also reports the average
daily turnover (TO) of the MA strategies, the one-way transaction cost (FEE) that would be
required to eliminate the alpha of the MA strategy, and the percentage of days when the return
on the strategy is at least that of Bitcoin (WIN(%)). The sample period is 10/27/2010−1/31/2018.
Panel A presents results for 7-day-per-week observations (n=2,654). Panel B presents the same
results as Panel A, but for the second half of the sample (n=1,302). Panel C presents similar
results as Panel A but using 5-day-per-week observations. Panel D uses the same sample as Panel
C but also includes the excess returns on the stock market (𝑀𝐾𝑇), the Barclay’s Aggregate Bond
Index (AGG), and gold as factors. Newey-West standard errors are below point estimates in
parentheses.

                        Panel A: 7-day-per-week observations (N=2654)
                               MA5         MA10           MA20         MA50       MA100
 𝛽𝐵𝑇𝐶                          0.57          0.59          0.60         0.68       0.77
                              (0.04)       (0.04)         (0.04)       (0.03)     (0.03)
 𝛼(%)                          0.24          0.23          0.19         0.14       0.11
                              (0.05)       (0.06)         (0.06)       (0.06)     (0.05)
 𝑅2                            0.57          0.59          0.60         0.68       0.77
 MA Sharpe                     2.51          2.45          2.29         2.13       2.09
 Appraisal                     1.61          1.52          1.26         0.97       0.83
 Utility gain(%)              70.29         62.35         42.83        25.33       18.52
 TO(%)                        21.75         12.93          7.95         5.01       2.68
 FEE(%)                        1.12          1.76          2.36         2.74       3.96
 WIN(%)                       79.70         80.32         80.86        84.02       84.57
             Panel B: 7-day-per-week observations, second-half subsample (N=1327)
                               MA5         MA10           MA20         MA50       MA100
 𝛽𝐵𝑇𝐶                          0.52          0.50          0.48         0.60       0.73
                              (0.04)       (0.04)         (0.04)       (0.04)     (0.04)
 𝛼(%)                          0.15          0.14          0.12         0.10       0.04
                              (0.05)       (0.05)         (0.05)       (0.05)     (0.05)
 𝑅2                            0.52          0.50          0.48         0.60       0.73
 MA Sharpe                     2.09          2.02          1.90         1.80       1.45
 Appraisal                     1.51          1.41          1.24         1.07       0.40
 Utility gain(%)              107.25        93.42         72.52        54.28       7.63
Table 8: (continued)

                           Panel C: 5-day-per-week data (N=1807)
                                 MA5        MA10           MA20          MA50       MA100
 𝛽𝐵𝑇𝐶                            0.58         0.60           0.60         0.67       0.77
                                (0.04)       (0.04)        (0.04)        (0.04)     (0.03)
 𝛼(%)                            0.28         0.24           0.22         0.17       0.13
                                (0.07)       (0.07)        (0.07)        (0.06)     (0.06)
 𝑅2                              0.58         0.60           0.59         0.67       0.77
 MA Sharpe                       2.42         2.30           2.23         2.13       2.08
 Appraisal                       1.48         1.29           1.18         0.97       0.84
 Utility gain(%)                59.70        45.57          38.08        25.85      19.15
              Panel D: Controlling for other factors at 5-day frequency (N=1793 )
                                 MA5        MA10           MA20          MA50       MA100
 𝛽𝐵𝑇𝐶                            0.58        0.60          0.59          0.67          0.77
                               (0.04)      (0.04)        (0.04)        (0.04)        (0.03)
 𝛽𝑀𝐾𝑇                            8.32      10.51           8.26         -8.31        -19.86
                              (12.06)     (12.22)       (12.14)       (-12.59)      (-13.15)
 𝛽𝐴𝐺𝐺                            0.03        0.43          0.25         -0.31         -0.58
                               (0.43)      (0.45)        (0.43)        (-0.43)       (-0.42)
 𝛽𝐺𝑂𝐿𝐷                          -0.02       -0.05         -0.07         -0.03         -0.07
                              (-0.10)     (-0.08)       (-0.08)       (-0.072)       (-0.07)
 𝛼(%)                            0.27        0.23          0.22          0.19          0.16
                               (0.07)      (0.07)        (0.07)        (0.07)        (0.07)
 𝑅2                             0.58        0.60          0.59         0.67          0.77
Table 9: Performance of trading strategies for Ripple

Panel A presents summary statistics of the returns in excess of the 1-day risk-free rate on Ripple
and each of the MA(𝐿) strategies for Ripple. The data are from 11/12/2013-1/31/2018 (n=1540).
Means, standard deviations, and Sharpe ratios are annualized. MDD denotes maximum
                                                        PQ(R)
drawdown. Panel B presents regressions of the form: 𝑟𝑥-       = 𝛼 + 𝛽Z[\\R] ⋅ 𝑟𝑥- + 𝜖- , where 𝑟𝑥-
                                                               PQ(R)
denotes the day-𝑡 buy-and-hold excess return on Ripple and 𝑟𝑥-       denotes the excess return on
                                                                           _
the MA(𝐿) Ripple strategy. Beneath each regression is the appraisal ratio ^`(a)b of the MA strategy
                                     PQ(R)
and the utility gain from access to 𝑟𝑥-   . Newey-West standard errors are below point estimates
in parentheses.
                         Panel A: Summary Statistics for Ripple strategies
              Mean(%) SD(%) Sharpe Min(%) Max(%) Skewness Kurtosis MDD(%)
 Ripple        230.78     173.15     1.33    -46.01    179.37      6.69     112.33      95.21
 MA5           286.22     156.52     1.83    -46.01    179.37      9.02     166.58       70.8
 MA10          290.91     154.47     1.88    -46.01    179.37      9.31     175.24      77.81
 MA20          255.08     155.15     1.64    -46.01    179.37      9.18     172.73      77.26
 MA50          234.46     157.3      1.49    -46.01    179.37      8.74     163.85      85.52
 MA100         203.94     156.98     1.3     -46.01    179.37       8.9     165.22      79.95

                                    Panel B: Strategy alphas
                                (1)           (2)           (3)             (4)           (5)
                               MA5          MA10          MA20            MA50          MA100
 𝛽𝑅𝐼𝑃                          0.82          0.80          0.80            0.83           0.82
                              (0.05)        (0.05)        (0.05)          (0.05)        (0.05))
 𝛼(%)                          0.27          0.29          0.19            0.12           0.04
                              (0.08)        (0.08)        (0.08)          (0.08)         (0.08)
 𝑅2                            0.82          0.80          0.80            0.83           0.82
 Appraisal                     1.47          1.54          1.01            0.67           0.22
 Utility gain(%)              120.82        134.01        57.88           25.21           2.64
Table 10: Performance of trading strategies for NASDAQ: 1996-2005

Panel A presents summary statistics of the returns in excess of the 1-day risk-free rate on
NASDAQ and each of the MA(𝐿) NASDAQ strategies. Means, standard deviations, and Sharpe
ratios are annualized. MDD denotes maximum drawdown. Panel B presents regressions of the
         PQ(R)
form: 𝑟𝑥-      = 𝛼 + 𝛽cdefdg ⋅ 𝑟𝑥- + 𝜖- , where 𝑟𝑥- denotes the day-𝑡 buy-and-hold excess return
                     PQ(R)
on NASDAQ and 𝑟𝑥-            denotes the excess return on the MA(𝐿) NASDAQ strategy. Beneath
                                        _
each regression is the appraisal ratio ^`(a)b of the MA strategy and the utility gain from access to
  PQ(R)
𝑟𝑥-    . The sample period is daily from 1/2/1996−12/30/2005 yielding n=2,419 strategy-return
observations. Newey-West standard errors are below point estimates in parentheses.

               Panel A: Summary Statistics of NASDAQ strategies
        Mean(%) SD(%) Sharpe Min(%) Max(%) Skewness Kurtosis MDD(%)
 NASDAQ   7.26   29.45    0.25     -9.69       14.15    0.20    6.99 77.93
 MA5      7.81   18.54    0.42     -6.23        8.10    0.07    9.46 44.72
 MA10    11.61    17.8    0.65     -6.23        8.10    0.05    9.12 42.72
 MA20    12.45    17.6    0.71     -5.59        8.10   -0.06    8.30 25.66
 MA50    12.05   17.54    0.69     -7.66        4.84   -0.43    7.30 37.24
 MA100    7.16   17.22    0.42     -7.66        4.28   -0.50    7.77 41.26

                                      Panel B: Strategy alphas
                                  (1)           (2)           (3)            (4)           (5)
                                 MA5          MA10          MA20           MA50          MA100
 𝛽𝑁𝐴𝑆𝐷𝐴𝑄                         0.40          0.37          0.36           0.35          0.34
                                (0.02)        (0.02)        (0.02)         (0.02)        (0.02)
 𝛼(%)                            0.02          0.04          0.04           0.04          0.02
                                (0.02)        (0.02)        (0.02)         (0.02)        (0.02)
 𝑅2                              0.40          0.37          0.36           0.35          0.34
 appraisal                       0.34          0.63          0.70           0.67          0.34
 Utility gain(%)                193.1         656.1         803.3          743.9          184.7
Table 11: Volume and technical trading indicators

This table presents regressions of the form:
                             Δ log(𝑣𝑜𝑙𝑢𝑚𝑒)- = 𝑎 + 𝑏 ⋅ 𝑋𝑡 + 𝑐 ⋅ |rt | + 𝜖𝑡 ,
where 𝑣𝑜𝑙𝑢𝑚𝑒- denotes the trading volume in Bitcoin on day 𝑡, |𝑟𝑡 | denotes the absolute return
on Bitcoin on day 𝑡, and 𝑋𝑡 denotes one of two predictors. In column (1), 𝑋𝑡 is the sum
p∑𝐿rΔ𝑆𝐿,𝑡 rs of the absolute turnover’s rΔ𝑆𝐿,𝑡 r from each of the MA strategies. In column (2), 𝑋𝑡
is the cross-sectional standard deviation ^𝜎𝐿 pΔ𝑆𝐿,𝑡 sb of Δ𝑆𝐿,𝑡 , a measure of the “disagreement”
among technical traders using the different MA strategies (𝐿 = 5, 10, 20, 50, or 100). In column
(3), 𝑋𝑡 includes ∑𝐿rΔ𝑆𝐿,𝑡 r and 𝜎𝐿 pΔ𝑆𝐿,𝑡 s. The sample is 12/27/2013–1/31/2018 (n=1496).
Newey-West standard errors are below point estimates in parentheses.

                                  (1)                      (2)                      (3)
 ∑𝐿p|Δ𝑆𝐿,𝑡 |s                     0.31                                             0.32
                                 (0.06)                                           (0.06)
 𝜎𝐿 pΔ𝑆𝐿,𝑡 s                                               0.03                    0.03
                                                          (0.01)                  (0.01)
 |𝑟- |                            5.33                     5.75                    5.33
                                 (0.55)                   (0.57)                  (0.55)
 𝑅H                               0.18                     0.17                    0.18
