Bitcoin intraday time-series momentum
Article

Accepted Version




Shen, D., Urquhart, A. ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-
8834-4243 and Wang, P. (2022) Bitcoin intraday time-series
momentum. Financial Review, 57 (2). pp. 319-344. ISSN 1540-
6288 doi: 10.1111/fire.12290 Available at
https://centaur.reading.ac.uk/100181/



It is advisable to refer to the publisher’s version if you intend to cite from the
work. See Guidance on citing .
To link to this article DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/fire.12290

Publisher: Wiley



All outputs in CentAUR are protected by Intellectual Property Rights law,
including copyright law. Copyright and IPR is retained by the creators or other
copyright holders. Terms and conditions for use of this material are defined in
the End User Agreement .


www.reading.ac.uk/centaur

CentAUR
Central Archive at the University of Reading
Reading’s research outputs online
               Bitcoin Intraday Time-Series Momentum




                                             Abstract

This study examines intraday time-series momentum in Bitcoin. Unlike stock markets, Bitcoin

trades 24 hours a day and therefore has not got a clear opening and closing period. Therefore, we

use trading volume as a proxy for the market trading time and show that the first half-hour

positively predicts the last half-hour return. We find that the first trading sessions with the highest

volume or volatility are associated with the greatest predictability for intraday time-series

momentum. We also show that intraday momentum-based trading yields substantial economic

gains in terms of market timing and asset allocation, especially in periods of a market downturn in

Bitcoin. Consistent with foreign exchange markets in Elaut et al. (2018), we also show that the

intraday momentum is driven by liquidity provision not late-informed trading.




JEL: G12, G13, G15
Keywords: Intraday Predictability; Time-Series Momentum; Bitcoin; Cryptocurrencies; Liquidity
           Provision




                                                                                                     1
1. Introduction

Momentum is a well-known effect in financial markets and is broadly the idea that assets that have

performed well in the past, continue to perform well in the future. The seminal work in this area,

by Jegadeesh and Titman (1993), shows that winners (losers) over the past six months to a year

tend to continue to be winners (losers) over the next six months to a year. This is known as cross-

sectional momentum which has been confirmed by numerous studies in global stock markets

(Rouwenhorst, 1998; Griffin et al., 2003; Barroso and Santa-Clara, 2015; Daniel and Moskowitz,

2016), currency markets (Burnside et al., 2011; Menkhoff et al., 2012; Kroencke et al., 2014; Raza et

al., 2014) and commodity futures (Miffre and Rallis, 2007; Shen et al., 2007; Fuertes et al., 2010;

Narayan et al., 2015).



Related to cross-sectional momentum is time-series momentum, first proposed by Moskowitz et

al. (2012), who show that the previous twelve-month return of an asset positively predicts futures

returns. This finding has been strongly supported in the literature by Asness et al. (2013)

Georgopoulou and Wang (2017) and Lim et al. (2018). Conversely, Huang et al. (2020) question

the strength of time-series momentum and that its investment performance is weak, especially for

a large cross section of assets. Recently however, intraday time-series momentum has been

proposed by Gao et al. (2018) who show that the first half-hour return on the S&P 500 ETF

predicts the last half-hour return. They show that this effect is also present in other US ETFs,

robust to transaction costs and other time frames. Consistent with this finding, Elaut et al. (2018)

find that the first half-hour return can be used to predict the last half-hour return in the RUB-

USD FX market during the financial crisis. Recently, Baltussen et al. (2021) provide strong evidence

of market intraday momentum everywhere by using intraday returns on over 60 futures on equities,

bonds, commodities, and currencies covering more than 40 years. Li et al. (2021b) also document

that intraday time series momentum is economically sizable and statistically significant in 16

developed markets. Jin et al. (2020) and Zhang et al. (2020) show significant evidence of time-series

                                                                                                   2
intraday momentum in Chinese commodity markets. Therefore there is a modest but growing

literature of intraday time-series momentum in financial markets.



Growing stunningly in recent years, the market capitalization (539.05 billion US dollars) of Bitcoin

at the end of 2020 is still 57.32 times as large as it was at the beginning of 2014 (9.40 billion US

dollars). Given the high media attention and dramatic price swings, there has been an explosion

of studies examining cryptocurrencies, with special attention devoted to Bitcoin. 1 Some

characteristics make Bitcoin different from traditional assets, e.g., unclear intrinsic value, frequent

“pump-and-dump” schemes and low barriers to entry. The above features could lead to intensive

trading in the Bitcoin markets. Advanced cryptocurrency exchange's API also accelerates high-

frequency trading booming, raising issues on intraday patterns of Bitcoin markets.



The existing literature has reported the existence of bubbles (Cheah and Fry, 2015; Corbet et al.,

2018a), the inefficiency of Bitcoin (Urquhart, 2016; Nadarajah and Chu, 2017; Tiwari et al., 2018),

the hedging and diversification benefits of Bitcoin (Corbet et al., 2018b; Borri, 2019; Guesmi et al.,

2019; Urquhart and Zhang, 2019), the volatility dynamics of Bitcoin (Katsiampa, 2017; Klein et al.,

2018; Katsiampa, 2019; Katsiampa et al., 2019), the attention from media outlets (Philippas et al.,

2019) and the manipulations and illegal activity of Bitcoin (Gandal et al., 2018; Foley et al., 2019).

There is also growing literature on the potential benefits of actively trading Bitcoin. For instance,

Brière et al. (2015) show that the inclusion of Bitcoin dramatically improves the risk-adjusted

returns of portfolios, while Kajtazi and Moro (2019) examine the role of Bitcoin in portfolios of

US, European and Chinese assets and support previous findings in showing that Bitcoin improves

portfolio performance by increasing returns, and not be reducing risk. Recently, Platanakis and

Urquhart (2020) conduct a comprehensive study on the benefits of Bitcoin in a well-diversified


1 Bitcoin has been adopted widely. For example, CFA adds topics related to Bitcoin and blockchain, which can be

used as test materials; Some company accept Bitcoin as a payment method; The top 50 universities offer Bitcoin
courses.

                                                                                                                  3
portfolio and show that even during periods of turmoil, the inclusion of Bitcoin substantially

improves the risk-adjusted returns. Regarding other forms of trading, Hudson and Urquhart

(2021) show that employing a wide-range of technical trading rules to a broad range of

cryptocurrencies generates significant returns to investors while Corbet et al. (2019a) show that

simple moving average rules and variable-length moving average rules generate significant returns

using high-frequency Bitcoin returns, which is supported by Grobys et al. (2020). 2 However,

Grobys and Sapkota (2019) show no evidence of significant cross-sectional momentum profits in

a set of 143 cryptocurrencies. Li et al. (2021a), Liu and Tsyvinski (2021), Liu et al. (2021) and Zhang

et al. (2021) document factors that affect the cross-section returns, including size, momentum,

extreme returns and etc. Although the above papers explore potential profitability of Bitcoin

trading, none of them examine the time-series momentum using high-frequency data. Given the

Bitcoin’s importance, characteristics and literature gap there is a need to document the intraday

momentum in the Bitcoin markets.



We add to the growing literature on the trading potential of Bitcoin by studying intraday time-

series momentum in Bitcoin. The intraday time-series momentum of Gao et al. (2018) suggests

that the first half-hour of the equity trading day predicts the final half-hour. However, the Bitcoin

markets do not have opening and closing times and trade 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, unlike

traditional stock markets. Unlike previous studies on intraday time-series momentum, we have no

clear opening and closing sessions as futures markets of Baltussen et al. (2021) and foreign

exchange market of Elaut et al. (2018). Therefore we select the opening time of each exchange

when volumes spikes and the closing time when the 60-minute break of CME Bitcoin futures

trading begins at 5pm EST. Further two important macroeconomic variables, the GDP and the

CPI, are both released at 8:30am Eastern time, which may have a significant important on the




2 For a recent review of the literature regarding cryptocurrencies, see Corbet et al. (2019b).


                                                                                                     4
investment decisions of traders. For both these reasons, we choose volume spikes as our opening

period and 5pm as our closing period. The overnight return captures any overnight return as well

as the first 30-minute impact of news releases of GDP and CPI. We use the trading of Bitfinex,

Bitstamp, CEX.IO, Coinbase, and Kraken, and find that the first half-hour significantly predicts

the last half-hour of Bitcoin, both in the in-sample and out-of-sample setting, thereby indicating

the strong evidence of intraday time-series momentum in Bitcoin. We also show that the intraday

time-series momentum is stronger when the first trading sessions have the highest volume or

volatility and that intraday momentum-based trading yields substantial economic gains in terms of

market timing and asset allocation, especially in periods of a market downturn in Bitcoin. This is

very important and documents that this strategy could be a useful hedging strategy when there is

a downturn in the Bitcoin markets. Also consistent with Gao et al. (2018), we show that the

intraday momentum is higher on days when past returns are positive rather than negative.



Therefore our paper offers important insights into the cryptocurrency and intraday time-series

momentum literature. First, we provide the first Bitcoin study on intraday momentum based on

the work of Gao et al. (2018). While Gao et al. (2018) analyse US ETFs and provide evidence of

intraday time-series momentum that the first half-hour return predicts the last half-hour return,

we also find significant evidence of intraday time-series momentum in Bitcoin. Specifically, we

find that the first half-hour significantly predicts the last half-hour of Bitcoin, both in the in-sample

and out-of-sample setting, thereby indicating the strong evidence of intraday time-series

momentum in Bitcoin.



Second , there a significant lack of papers that study the intraday dynamics of Bitcoin. A recent

survey paper by Bariviera and Merediz-Solà (2021) show that only 14% of published papers on

cryptocurrencies study intraday data. As Malceniece et al. (2019) note, the scale of high-frequency

trading activity varies depending on the market and how broadly high-frequency trading is defined,
                                                                                                       5
but there is no doubt that high-frequency trading accounts for a large share of trading volume in

most markets and therefore we contribute to the literature on high-frequency trading in a

cryptocurrency perspective. We also show that the intraday time-series momentum is stronger

when the first trading sessions have the highest volume or volatility, indicating that investors are

able to trade on this effect. This is very important in that our finding on intraday time-series

momentum is actually tradeable in the Bitcoin markets. Following on from this, we show that

intraday momentum-based trading yields substantial economic gains in terms of market timing

and asset allocation, especially in periods of a market downturn in Bitcoin. Therefore this strategy

is of great interest to Bitcoin investors as well as hedgers within the Bitcoin markets.



Third, we test two possible explanations for the intraday momentum in the Bitcoin markets. The

first hypothesis is the late-informed investors hypothesis, i.e., investors, who get the information

later or process the information too slowly, buy or sell stock in the last-half trading hour as it is

the most liquid period. The second one refers to the liquidity provision hypothesis, i.e., risk

aversion of overnight positions and the disposal effect of liquidity providers drive intraday

momentum. After a series of tests, we find intraday momentum is driven by the liquidity provision

of the trading session after opening, combined with intraday traders’ disposition effect and risk

aversion to overnight risks. Aside from adding to the literature on pricing in the Bitcoin markets,

our conclusions also help to understand the pricing of other “hard-to-value” assets (Detzel et al.,

2021).




The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the data and empirical

methodology. Section 3 presents the empirical results while section 4 tests some possible

explanations. Section 5 reports additional analyses and Section 6 summarizes and provides

conclusions.

                                                                                                   6
2. Data

In this study, we broadly follow the methodology of Gao et al. (2018) and Baltussen et al. (2021) to

investigate the presence of intraday time-series momentum in Bitcoin. Unlike ETF and futures

used in Gao et al. (2018), Bitcoin can be traded denominated in different currencies on different

exchanges. The market share of Bitcoin trading volume in different currencies are shown in Figure

13 where we find USD is always predominant over the sample period with an average market share

of 69.83%. According to NewsBTC, the number of US-based monthly active crypto traders is

22.26 million, dominating Bitcoin markets (more than the sum of the next 5 countries) and

covering 6.7% of the US population. 4 The US Bitcoin trading of 1523.6 million USD is also

significantly ahead of others.5 Therefore the US markets and investors play a crucial role in the

pricing of cryptocurrencies6 and we select BTC/USD to examine intraday momentum effects.

According the statistics of bitcoinity,7 the market trading share of Bitfinex, Bitstamp, CEX.IO,

Coinbase, and Kraken account for more than 91.66% of total Bitcoin markets at the end of 2020.

Hence we select Bitcoin trading data from these the world’s largest, reputational and long-existing

exchanges. We collect tick level data of these five exchanges Bitcoin price from

www.bitcoincharts.com from the earliest date to 31st December 2020 in US dollars.8 The start of




3 Since Bitcoin trading was no longer legal after 2017 in China, we deleted the trading volume in CNY when calculating

the market shares.
4 https://www.newsbtc.com/news/united-states-crypto-bitcoin-traders/.
5 https://www.statista.com/statistics/1195753/bitcoin-trading-selected-countries/.
6 The daily average trading volume during US market hours is 25041.98 BTC, accounting for 56.12% of the entire

trading volume.
7 For more information, please visit https://data.bitcoinity.org/markets/volume/5y/USD?c=e&t=b. The Bitcoin

price of these exchanges are widely used in many studies, for instance, Brandvold et al. (2015), Urquhart (2017), Gandal
et al. (2018), Borri (2019), Shen et al. (2019) and Alexander and Heck (2020).
8 Unfortunately, due to a lack of reliable, liquid and long enough high frequency data, we are unable to examine

whether intraday time series momentum is also present in other cryptocurrencies. However this may be an area of
future research.
                                                                                                                      7
the data period is the earliest date available.9 We then aggregate the tick level data up to the 1-

minutely level.



Gao et al. (2018) use S&P 500 ETF that have clear opening and closing time but Bitcoin is traded

around the clock and therefore its trading hours should be determined. Elaut et al. (2018) argue

that foreign exchange trading intensifies greatly when the domestic financial markets open and

therefore select the trading hours of the MICEX. Baltussen et al. (2021) determine the trading

hours of non-equity assets based on spikes in volume or the opening and closing time of relative

instruments. Similar in spirit to Elaut et al. (2018) and Baltussen et al. (2021), we select opening

times of each exchange when volumes spikes. The closing time is chosen as 5pm EST as CME

Bitcoin futures trading has a 60-minute break each day beginning at 5pm EST.10 Gao et al. (2018)

use the first half-hour return as the difference between the closing price at 4pm EST and the price

at 10am EST the following day, thereby capturing the morning news which includes the important

earnings and economic news released before the US markets open. Bitcoin markets trade 24-hours

a day and therefore can capture the information from these news stories a lot faster than the US

market. Also, Bitcoin traders can trade earlier than they can on US markets and therefore our

opening time also takes this into consideration when studying any intraday momentum. US

markets also close as 4pm EST, but as Eross et al. (2019) show, there is still considerable trading

volume in the Bitcoin markets after 4pm EST and therefore we select 5pm EST as our last period

of significantly trading in the Bitcoin markets. Therefore if observed Bitcoin intraday momentum

is driven by late-informed trading or liquidity provision, the selected trading hours are suitable for

tests on possible explanations (Elaut et al., 2018). Table 1 lists the trading hours and daily trading




9 Although Bitstamp was founded in August 2011, Bitcoin trading on it was not active enough before 2013. There are

many first-half-hour/last-half-hour buckets without trading in 2011 and 2012, which may distort the intraday pattern
and the impact of volume and volatility. We therefore discard the trading on Bitstamp in 2011 and 2012.
10 https://www.cmegroup.com/trading/cryptocurrency-indices/cme-options-bitcoin-futures-frequently-asked-

questions.html.
                                                                                                                  8
volume for all the Bitcoin trading exchanges we used in the paper where we find Bitfinex, Bitstamp

and Kraken has larger trading volume.



Specifically, to study the intraday momentum in cryptocurrencies on any trading day t, we calculate

the first half-hour return using the previous day’s (t-1) close price (c) and the price of 30 minutes

after opening (o) on day t,

                                             𝑝𝑜+30,𝑡
                                𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 =            −1                                     (1)
                                             𝑝𝑐,𝑡−1

where 𝑝𝑜+30,𝑡 is the price of first half hour on day t, and 𝑝𝑐,𝑡−1 is the close price on day t-1.

Therefore the first half-hour return captures the impact of information released overnight. In

order to examine the impact of the second-to-last half-hour return on the last half-hour return, we

also include the return between the second-to-last half hour and the last half hour,

                                            𝑝𝑐−30,𝑡
                                 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 =           −1                                      (2)
                                            𝑝𝑐−60,𝑡

                                             𝑝𝑐,𝑡
                                  𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 =             −1                                    (3)
                                            𝑝𝑐−30,𝑡

where 𝑝𝑐−30,𝑡 is the price of the last half hour on day t, 𝑝𝑐−60,𝑡 is the price of the second-to-last

half hour on day t and 𝑝𝑐,𝑡 is the close price on day t.



Initially, we model the existence of intraday time-series momentum using the following pooled

regression:

                    𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇                           (4)

              𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇                   (5)

where 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the return of the last trading session on day t, 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 is the return during the close

price of previous day and the price of the end of first half hour on day t, 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the second-to-

last half-hour return, and T is the total number of trading days in our sample. Table 2 reports the

                                                                                                    9
descriptive statistics of the half-hour returns and trading volume (in BTC) where we find that

𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝑁 has the highest mean return, while the trading volume during the ONFH period also has

the highest mean. We also find the ONFH period has the largest standard deviation of returns and

trading volume, suggesting that a lot of activity takes place during the ONFH period of our sample.

The mean of all half hour buckets is 0.00008 and the mean trading volume is 178.6 BTC, indicating

the Bitcoin markets are liquid.



    3. Empirical Results



    3.1.    Intraday Predictability

Table 3 reports the predictability of the last half-hour returns using the returns of the first and the

second-to-last trading sessions as explained previously. Consistent with Baltussen et al. (2021), we

conduct pooled regressions and find that the first half hour significantly predicts the last half hour

with a slope of 0.968. The Newey West t-statistic is 4.38, indicating that this result is highly

significant at the 1% level and strong evidence that the first half hour predicts the last half hour

of the same day. The R2 is 1.44%, which is much higher than found in the previous literature (such

as Rapach and Zhou (2013)) and fairly close to that found by Gao et al. (2018) and Baltussen et al.

(2021), again showing the strength of the effect. In the second column of Table 1, we examine

the case of strong price persistence where the second last half-hour return strong affects the last

half-hour return. We can see that strong evidence of anti-persistence where the second last half-

hour return is negatively significantly related with the last half-hour return. Therefore this initial

result suggests that the second last half hour does not positively predict the last half hour. In the

final column of Table 1, we regress the last half hour on the first half hour and the second last half

hour, and we see that the first half hour significantly predicts the last half hour at the 1% level of

significance. The R2 of 2.12% is very high and larger than the individual R2s suggesting that the

first half hour and the second last half hour are complementary in forecasting the last half-hour
                                                                                               10
return.11 Therefore our in-sample results suggest that the first half hour significantly predicts the

last half hour thereby supporting intraday time-series momentum.



    3.2.      Out-of-Sample Predictability

     Our previous analysis is based on the entire sample and while the in-sample estimation is

econometrically more efficient if regressions are stable over time, we know that the Bitcoin

markets has changed dramatically over time and therefore the in-sample predictability does not

necessarily imply out-of-sample predictability (as demonstrated by Welch and Goyal (2008)).

Therefore we follow Gao et al. (2018); Baltussen et al. (2021) and define a pooled out-of-sample R2

measure calculated by:


                                        ∑𝑖∈𝐵𝑡(𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑖,𝑡 − 𝑟̂𝐿𝐻,𝑖,𝑡 )2
                                          ∑𝑇𝑡=1
                           2                    𝑛(𝐵𝑡 )
                          𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆 =1−                                                                   (6)
                                        ∑ (𝑟          − 𝑟̅𝐿𝐻,𝑖,𝑡 )2
                                   ∑𝑇𝑡=1 𝑖∈𝐵𝑡 𝐿𝐻,𝑖,𝑡
                                                𝑛(𝐵𝑡 )

where 𝐵𝑡 is the Bitcoin exchanges available on day t, 𝑛(𝐵𝑡 ) is the number of Bitcoin exchanges

available on day t, 𝑟̂𝐿𝐻,𝑖,𝑡 is the forecasted last half-hour return from the predictive regression

estimated through period t–1 in exchange i, and 𝑟̅𝐿𝐻,𝑖,𝑡 is the historical average forecast estimated

                                                                    2
from the sample mean through period t–1 in exchange i,. A positive 𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆 indicates that the

predictive regression forecast beats the simple historical average. Table 3 also reports the results
                                                              2
where when we use just the first half-hour return, where the 𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆 is 1.09%. When we use the

                                         2                                             2
second last half-hour return alone, the 𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆 is 1.40%, and when we use both, we get a 𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆 of

                                                                                 2
1.61%. This is much higher than Bond, Commodity and Currency futures contracts’ 𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆 found

in Baltussen et al. (2021), thereby confirming the strong significant effect of intraday time-series

momentum in Bitcoin.



11 Gao et al. (2018) document an R2 of 1.6% and argue that the level is considered impressive and relative large

compared to other predictors, especially at this data frequency.
                                                                                                             11
    3.3.    Impact of Volume and Volatility

So far, we have documented strong significance evidence of intraday time series momentum in

Bitcoin, but what impact does trading volume have on this momentum? This is an important

question since the first half hour of trading is typically characterised by both high volatility and

high volume and this may be skewing our results. Therefore we sort the trading days for each year

in our sample separately based on the first half hour trading volume, splitting them into three equal

groups: low, medium and high volume days. Table 4 shows that the first half hour significantly

predicts the final half hour in high and medium volume days, but the result is insignificant in low

volume days. The R2 is 3.86% for high volume days suggesting strong forecasting power, while

the R2 is 1.09% for low volume days. Therefore intraday time series momentum is most prevalent

in high volume days and there is no significant effect in low volume days. This supports our finding

and suggests that our result is not due to illiquidity in the market and that investors would be able

to trade on this intraday time-series momentum.



A related topic is the impact volatility has on intraday momentum. To address this, we sort all

trading days in our sample by the first half hour volatility, splitting them into three groups: low,

medium and high volatility days based on 1-minutely data. Table 4 reports the results and we find

strong significance evidence of intraday time series momentum on days with high volatility, where

the first half hour coefficient is statistical significance at the 1% level and the R2 is 2.83%. However

we find no evidence of the first half hour predicting the final half hour in medium or low volatile

days indicating that this effect is only prevalent in days with high volatility.



From the above results, we infer that the opening trading sessions with the highest volume or

volatility have the greatest intraday time-series momentum predictability for Bitcoin. As investors'

participation increases when trading volume is high, we assume that higher the trading volume or
                                                                                                     12
volatility in the first half hour means that there are more investors active which in turn leads to

greater predictability. This indicates that intraday momentum in the Bitcoin markets is positively

associated with volume and volatility, consistent with Gao et al. (2018) and Elaut et al. (2018).




    3.4.    Market Timing

To assess the true value of this predictor we examine how well it performs in market timing where

we use the first and second last half hours as timing signals to trade the market in the last half

hour. We take a long position in the market at the beginning of the last half hour if the timing

signal is positive and a short position otherwise. We close the position (long or short) at the market

close on each trading day. Specifically



                                      𝑟 ,        𝑖𝑓 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 > 0;
                         𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 ) = { 𝐿𝐻
                                      −𝑟𝐿𝐻 ,     𝑖𝑓 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 ≤ 0.
                                                                                            (7)
                                       𝑟 ,       𝑖𝑓 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 < 0;
                           𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 ) = { 𝐿𝐻
                                       −𝑟𝐿𝐻 ,    𝑖𝑓 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 ≥ 0.




We also examine the case where we use both the first half hour and the second last half hour as

trading signals, where we go long if the first half hour is positive and second last half hour is

negative, and go short when the first half is negative and the second last half hour is positive.

Otherwise, we stay out of the market. Specifically;



                                  𝑟𝐿𝐻 ,     𝑖𝑓 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 > 0 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 < 0;
              𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 ) = {−𝑟𝐿𝐻 ,    𝑖𝑓 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 ≤ 0 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 ≥ 0;                      (8)
                                    0,           𝑜𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑤𝑖𝑠𝑒.




                                                                                                    13
Table 5 reports the summary statistics on returns generated from the different trading strategies.

When we use the first half-hour return as the timing signal to trade on the last half hour, the

average return is 7.82% on an annual basis. However using the second last half hour to predict the

last half hour, returns 17.32% while combining the two signals provides a return of 16.69%. All

three strategies return positive Sharpe ratios, and all three have success rates well over 50%.

Therefore all three strategies substantially outperform the always long benchmark which returns

6.54% per annum. Conversely the buy-and-hold benchmark return a substantial 154.62% per

annum over our full sample period which represents the large increase in the price of Bitcoin.

However this figure can be misleading given the huge surge in the price of Bitcoin in 2013 and

2017 and these years may be skewing the results. Even with these dramatic years, the Sharpe ratios

of two of our strategies are higher than that of the buy-and-hold strategy indicating that on a risk-

return basis, intraday momentum does outperform the buy-and-hold strategy.



To examine this further, we calculate the timing value of intraday momentum on a yearly basis

since Bitcoin has performed quite drastically different every year since 2013. The results, also

reported in Table 5, show that for years of extreme appreciation of Bitcoin, namely 2013, 2016

and 2017, the buy-and-hold strategy performs much better in terms of yearly returns and Sharpe

ratios. However the value of the intraday momentum is clear in 2014, 2015 and 2018, where the

buy-and-hold strategy generates negative returns and the intraday momentum generates positive

returns and substantially higher Sharpe ratios. This indicates that the intraday time-series

momentum strategy can be very beneficial to investors during periods of downturn in the Bitcoin

markets and consequently could be used as a hedging strategy during Bitcoin markets turmoil. This

is consistent with Hudson and Urquhart (2019) that show that technical trading in cryptocurrencies

is especially beneficial during market turndowns. Therefore we show that the intraday momentum

strategy does especially well during periods when the Bitcoin markets are falling and suggests that

intraday time-series momentum avoids Bitcoin markets drawdowns.
                                                                                                  14
    3.5.    Utility Gains



The previous analysis on market timing used just the signs of returns to forecast returns, but we

can also use the magnitudes of the predictors to forecast expected returns. With these expected

returns, we construct the optimal portfolio for a mean-variance investor who allocates funds

between Bitcoin and the risk-free asset (Treasury t-bills). The optimal mean variance portfolio

weight on the market is:

                                           1 𝑟̂𝐿𝐻,𝑡+1
                                    𝑤𝑡 =       2                                           (9)
                                           𝛾 𝜎̂𝐿𝐻,𝑡+1

where 𝑟̂𝐿𝐻,𝑡+1 is the forecasted last half-hour return on day t+1 conditional on information

                                                             2
available on or before day t and the predictor on t+1, and 𝜎̂𝐿𝐻,𝑡+1 is the standard deviation of the

last half-hour return, both of which are estimated from recursive regressions. 𝛾 is the relative risk

aversion coefficient, which is set at 5 and we impose the portfolio constraint that the weight on

the market must be between -0.5 and 1.5, meaning that the investor is allowed to borrow or short

no more than 50% on margin.



Over the out-of-sample period, the realized utility is:

                                              𝛾
                                    𝑈 = 𝜇̂ 𝑝 − 𝜎̂𝑝2                                        (10)
                                              2

where 𝜇̂ 𝑝 and 𝜎̂𝑝2 are computed based on the realized portfolio returns. In the out-of-sample

forecasting literature, the historical average is usually the benchmark and the certainty equivalent

return (CER) of predictability is computed as:

                                   𝐶𝐸𝑅 = 𝑈2 − 𝑈1                                           (11)




                                                                                                  15
where 𝑈2 is the realized utility of using the forecasted return 𝑟̂𝐿𝐻,𝑡+1 and 𝑈1 is the realized utility

of using the historical mean forecast, 𝑟̅𝐿𝐻,𝑡+1 . The results are reported in Table 6 where using the

first half hour to forecast the last half-hour returns yields an average return of 10.776%, with a

standard deviation of 10.33% and large positive skewness. In contrast, using the historical average

to predict the last half-hour return only generates an average return of 2.28%, with a standard

deviation of 4.33% and hence a Sharpe ratio of 0.53. The CER using the first half-hour return is

5.95% per annum, indicating the sizable economic gains when investors switch from trading based

on a random walk to trading based on intraday momentum. When both the first and the second

last half-hour returns are used to forecast the last half-hour returns, the portfolio delivers the best

results, with an average return of 13.95% per annum, a Sharpe ratio of 1.15, and a CER of 8.09%

per annum. Therefore using both signals offers much higher utility gains than a random walk and

therefore offers substantial benefits to investors.




    3.6.    Conditional Predictability

As documented by Murphy and Thirumalai (2017), the intraday cross-sectional momentum is

much stronger conditional on negative past returns than on positive past returns. Therefore, we

examine how our results of intraday momentum vary conditional on the sign of the first half-hour

return. The results are reported in Table 7 where the R2 for the three predictive regressions are

1.89%, 2.78% and 3.19% respectively when the first half-hour return is positive. In contrast, the

R2 is only 0.11%, 0.88% and 0.89% when the first half-hour return is negative. The first half hour

coefficient is statistically significant in each case but much larger in the magnitude for when the

past returns are positive, presumably because of good economic news. Therefore we find,

consistent with Gao et al. (2018), that the intraday momentum effect is stronger when past returns

are positive rather than negative. This can be described by two competing explanations. First,

many investors can be reluctant to sell in the last half hour on a bad news day even when they

                                                                                                    16
should, due to the disposition effect. Second, arbitrageurs are less inclined to arbitrage in a down

market as it will be costlier than arbitraging in an up market. Nevertheless, we find strong evidence

of intraday time-series momentum even when previous returns are negative.



    3.7.      Transaction Costs

Up to this point, our analysis has assumed zero transaction costs but in practice these may be

significant. Indeed, any trading strategy may predict future price movements in the sense of

generating significantly positive returns but still not be profitable once the returns are adjusted for

transaction costs. Transaction costs for Bitcoin are difficult to estimate as it can depend on the

time of the day, the exchange in which the investor is trading with and whether the trade is

executed by a retail investor or an institutional investor. Lintilhac and Tourin (2017) suggest

transaction costs of 50bps for Bitcoin, but as mentioned previously, this may change dramatically

depending on many factors.12 Therefore we calculate breakeven transaction costs, which are the

transaction costs required to make the profit from employing this strategy zero. Interestingly,

many cryptocurrency exchanges have launched margin trading to satisfy the speculative need of

investors. 13 We thus calculate the costs (in bps) and profit (%) per trade by using different

leverages and profit (%) per trade is the average return on the trading day using the strategies.

Table 8 reports the results and shows that the entire-sample breakeven costs of 𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 ),𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )

and 𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 ) are 3, 7 and 10 bps respectively, indicating that all of these three strategies are

not profitable given that the trading fee of Bitstamp is 25bps.14 But margin trading increases the

breakeven costs, where 2:1 means that investors can buy twice the amount of Bitcoin by borrowing

the same amount of their principal. If Bitcoin investors trade with 10:1 leverage ratio, the break-

even costs of 𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 ),𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 ) and 𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 ) in the full sample period are 29, 64 and 96


12 Which has been employed in studies such as Platanakis et al. (2018) as well as Platanakis and Urquhart (2020).
13 Some sites list several exchanges for margin cryptocurrency trading, for example, https://coinsutra.com/margin-

trading-crypto-exchanges/.
14 https://www.bitstamp.net/fee-schedule/.

                                                                                                                    17
bps respectively, generating 0.28%, 0.61% and 0.96% per trade. This result shows that the intraday

momentum strategies with margin trading are still profitable.



However as previously discussed, Bitcoin has been through some extreme periods price

appreciation and depreciation and just studying the full sample may not give a representative

outlook. To further gauge the strategy effectiveness, we calculate the above results yearly to give

a detailed observation of the changes of the break-even costs and profit per trade. We also report

the results in Table 8 and find that the non-margin intraday momentum strategies have low break-

even costs except in the year of 2013. However, if we add leverage into the analysis, the break-

even costs and profit per trade grow substantially. This result shows that the intraday time-series

momentum strategy benefits to the investors with leverage trading. Overall, the break-even costs

indicate that the intraday momentum strategies remain profitable after taking trading costs into

consideration, especially for margin trading.



4. Possible Explanations



We now have documented the evidence of intraday momentum in the Bitcoin markets, but the

possible drivers of intraday momentum have not been tested. Gao et al. (2018) and Elaut et al.

(2018) provided possible explanations, i.e., late-informed investors hypothesis (investors, who get

the information later or process the information too slowly, buy or sell stock in the last-half trading

hour as it is the most liquid period) and liquidity provision hypothesis (risk aversion of overnight

positions and the disposal effect of liquidity providers drive intraday momentum). We therefore

explore the late-informed and liquidity provision explanations of intraday momentum in the

Bitcoin markets.



    4.1.    Late-informed Trading
                                                                                                    18
Informed investors tend to conceal the information advantage and reduce price shock via trading

in high volume trading sessions, e.g., first half hour (Kyle, 1985; Admati and Pfleiderer, 1988; Gao

et al., 2018). However, others investors may get the information later or process the information

too slowly so that they fail to trade in the first half hour session. Based on previous studies on

information transmission lasting up to a month (Cohen and Frazzini, 2008), we therefore

conjecture that some investors could spend up to an entire day to process information. As the

most liquid trading session, the last half hour is a good choice for the late-informed investors. If

informed investors trade immediately during the first half hour after the opening and the late-

informed investors also trade in the other most liquid session with the same direction, this has a

price impact and thereby generates a positive correlation between the returns of the first half hour

and the last half hour.



If the intraday momentum derives from the late-informed trading, the news on Bitcoin

significantly drives the intraday returns predictability, i.e., the intraday momentum is stronger in

days with more Bitcoin news than in days with less news. Therefore, to explore how the news

influences the magnitude of predictability of the last-half-hour returns, we collect the news

associated with Bitcoin from google.com.15 We run the following regression, including the log

number of Bitcoin news and interaction of the first half-hour return and news:

   𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠 𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠𝑡 + 𝛽𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 (𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠𝑡 × 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 ) + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡
                                                                                                 (12)
                     + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇

where 𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠𝑡 is the log number of Bitcoin news.




15 We search keyword “Bitcoin” in Google engine with the link

https://www.google.com/search?q=bitcoin&tbm=nws and then restrict the date of web pages in a certain date.
                                                                                                             19
We report the summary statistics of Bitcoin news in Panel A of Table 9. The mean log number

of news is 2.592 with the 95th percentile of 3.434 and the 5th percentile of 1.386, indicating that

Bitcoin is covered with several pieces of news every day. We first regress the last-half-hour returns

on Bitcoin news and find the coefficient 𝛽𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠 in Column (1) of Panel B is negative but

insignificant. We then add the first half-hour returns and second-to-last half-hour returns and the

coefficient 𝛽𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠 is still insignificant but 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 is significant at 1% level. Turning to the other

specifications, columns (4) and (5) of Panel B reports the regression results, including the

interaction of Bitcoin news and the first half-hour return. The 𝛽𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 captures the

interaction between 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 and 𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠𝑡 . The coefficients 𝛽𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 in columns (4) and (5)

indicate that the predictive relation is not significant in days with more Bitcoin news. Therefore

these results fail to lend support to the late-informed trading hypothesis.



    4.2.      Liquidity Provision



We turn to test another hypothesis on liquidity provision, i.e., some liquidity providers (e.g.,

intraday traders) also could cause the intraday momentum. Price information disseminates most

rapidly in the trading session after opening (Bloomfield et al., 2005), causing order imbalances as

investors respond to overnight news with taking similar positions. Intraday traders tend to trade

oppositely to provide liquidity of the Bitcoin markets during the trading session after opening.16

For profitable trades, intraday traders may close positions rapidly. However they may be unwilling

to close unprofitable positions quickly because of the disposition effect (Odean, 1998; Locke and

Mann, 2005). Nevertheless, intraday traders will close their positions before the end of the day,




16 There are more and more investors including institutional investors pay their attention to cryptocurrency intraday

trading (https://www.bnnbloomberg.ca/bitcoin-intraday-trading-pattern-emerges-as-institutions-pile-in-1.1576050).
There are also some tutorials on how to build an intraday trading system in the cryptocurrency markets
(https://quantatrisk.com/2020/04/27/intraday-algo-trading-model-cryptocurrencies-bitcoin-buy-signals-python/).
                                                                                                                   20
forced by the risk management practices and high overnight risk. They therefore trade with the

same directions of first half-hour return to close their positions.



To test the liquidity provision hypothesis, we first define the liquidity over the opening first half

hour interval. Since the unavailability of the high-frequency quote in some cryptocurrency

exchanges, it is a challenge for us to measure the first half hour liquidity. Luckily, Brauneis et al.

(2021) test the efficacy of low-frequency liquidity measures describing high-frequency liquidity in

the Bitcoin markets. They find that Corwin and Schultz (2012) measure is the best performing for

each of the quote spreads liquidity measures on an hourly basis. We consequently employ the

Corwin and Schultz (2012) spread estimator (CS) based on high and low prices to estimate liquidity.

We calculate the CS liquidity as follows:



                                            2(exp(𝛼) − 1)
                              𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑 =
                                             1 + exp(𝛼)

                                 √2𝛽 − √𝛽             𝛾
                            𝛼=                −√                                            (13)
                                  3 − 2√2          3 − 2√2

                                                                        2
                        𝐻𝑖 2       𝐻𝑖+1 2                      𝐻𝑖,𝑖+1
                𝛽 = [ln( )] + [ln(      )] ,          𝛾 = [ln(        )]
                        𝐿𝑖         𝐿𝑖+1                        𝐿𝑖,𝑖+1

where 𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑 is the CS estimator, 𝐻𝑖 and 𝐿𝑖 are the high and low prices at time 𝑖 while 𝐻𝑖,𝑖+1

and 𝐿𝑖,𝑖+1 denote the high and low prices of two adjacent time periods 𝑖 and 𝑖 + 1. For each

Bitcoin exchange, we measure the first half hour spread following Corwin and Schultz (2012).

Specifically, we also set negative values of CS estimator to zero.



We now examine how liquidity affects intraday momentum in the Bitcoin markets. If liquidity

provision drives intraday momentum, the CS estimator can predict the last-half-hour return. We

therefore run the following regression:

                                                                                                   21
           𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑 𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 (𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑡 × 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 )
                                                                                                      (14)
                            + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇

where 𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑 is the CS spread estimator in the first half hour trading session.



We report the statistics CS spread estimator (multiplied by 100) for each exchange in Panel C of

Table 9. Since the sample period for Bitfinex and Bitstamp is longer than others, their CS spread

is larger. The first half hour session of Coinbase and Kraken is the most liquid. The results of the

liquidity provision hypothesis are reported in Panel D of Table 9. The regression of 𝑟𝐿𝐻 on

𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑 in column (1) has t-statistic of 5.33, indicating CS spread estimator has explanatory power

on the last-half-hour returns. We then add 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 as well as the interaction of 𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑 and

𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 into the regression. The interaction is to test whether the explanatory power of 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻

depends on 𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑. Interestingly, 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 is still positively significant at the 1% level in columns

(2) and (3)17 but insignificant after adding the interaction in columns (4) and (5). On the contrary,

𝛽𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 is positively significant at the 1% level with t-statistics of 8.85 and 8.18 in the last

two columns, suggesting the intraday momentum is stronger when the spread is high. Taken

together, intraday momentum is driven by the liquidity provision the trading session after opening,

combined with intraday traders’ disposition effect and risk aversion to overnight risks.



5. Additional Analyses

    5.1.      Return Decomposition



We compute the first half-hour return used in the above analysis with the previous day’s close

price day and the price of 30 minutes after opening as Gao et al. (2018) and Baltussen et al. (2021)


17 We also find the 𝛽
                    𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 is still positively significant controlling quote spreads of previous day.
                                                                                                             22
do. It is interesting to decompose 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 into the 𝑟𝑂𝑁 (calculated with the previous day’s close

price day and the opening price) and the opening half-hour return 𝑟𝐹𝐻 (calculated with the opening

price and the price of 30 minutes after opening). Return decomposition also helps comprehend

the intraday momentum in Bitcoin markets. We then test which return has stronger predictive

power on the last-half-hour return. We report the results in Table 10 of the following regression.

           𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑂𝑁 𝑟𝑂𝑁,𝑡 + 𝛽𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇          (15)



Although both 𝛽𝑂𝑁 and 𝛽𝐹𝐻 are positively significant when regressing 𝑟𝐿𝐻 on 𝑟𝑂𝑁 or 𝑟𝐹𝐻

individually, the t-statistic of 𝛽𝐹𝐻 is 2.09, smaller than that of 𝛽𝑂𝑁 with a value of 5.28. The 𝑅 2 in

the second column is 0.57%, also smaller than that in the first column, indicating that 𝑟𝑂𝑁

contributes more to predicting 𝑟𝐿𝐻 . When including 𝑟𝑂𝑁 , 𝑟𝐹𝐻 and 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 simultaneously, the same

conclusion is reached. From the third column, the t-statistic of 𝛽𝑂𝑁 is 4.93, significant at the 1%

level but that of 𝛽𝐹𝐻 is merely 1.92, significant at the 10% level.



This return decomposition test is a supplement to the late-informed trading hypothesis test. If

late-informed trading drives the intraday momentum, the positive correlation between 𝑟𝐿𝐻 and

𝑟𝐹𝐻 should be stronger than that of 𝑟𝐿𝐻 and 𝑟𝑂𝑁 . But our result is inconsistent with this

explanation as we find that the 𝑟𝑂𝑁 is a better predictor than 𝑟𝐹𝐻 .



    5.2.     Alternative Trading Pairs

We use 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 and 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 to predict 𝑟𝐿𝐻 using BTC/USD in the above analysis and now we turn to

test whether intraday momentum works based on open-close times of other major markets, i.e.,

Japan and South Korea markets.18 We select BTC/JPY and BTC/KRW as the alternative trading



18 We thank an anonymous referee for this valuable suggestion.

                                                                                                    23
pairs because they are actively traded (shown in Figure 1) and the representatives of east Asia.

According the statistics of bitcoinity, the market trading share of bitFlyer, BtcBox and Zaif

accounts for more than 90% of BTC/JPY trading at the end of 2020. Korbit is the longest-existing

exchange located in South Korea. We hence collect tick level data of these four exchanges Bitcoin

price from www.bitcoincharts.com from the earliest date to 31st December 2020 in Japanese Yen

and Korean Won. The start of the data period is the earliest date available. In a similar spirit, we

follow Gao et al. (2018) and Baltussen et al. (2021) to determine the opening and closing times of

Bitcoin trading of Japan and South Korea markets. We select the opening times of each exchange

when the trading volume spikes and determine the closing times when local stock markets close.

We report the basic information of trading data usedand in Panel A of Table 11 where we find

bitFlyer is the most active while Korbit has longer trading history.



Panels B and C of Table 11 report the predictability of the last half-hour returns using the returns

of the first and the second-to-last trading sessions. Consistent with the findings of BTC/USD, the

Newey West t-statistic of 2.38 and 2.50, indicating that the intraday momentum of BTC/JPY and

BTC/KRW is weaker but still significant at the 5% level. Therefore our in-sample and out-of-

sample results suggest that the first half hour significantly predicts the last half hour thereby

supporting intraday time-series momentum of BTC/JPY and BTC/KRW. But what drives the

intraday momentum based on open-close times of Japan and South Korea markets. Given that

Bitcoin is distributed ledger, it is natural to conjecture it is also driven by liquidity provision because

there is no information release source in the Bitcoin markets. We then repeat the analysis of

Section 4.2 and find 𝛽𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 is significant at 1% level but 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 is not, indicating intraday

momentum is driven by the liquidity provision. Overall, the results of alternative trading pairs are

intuitive and provide evidence on liquidity provision explanation.



    5.3.    Alternative Predictability
                                                                                                        24
We have studied the intraday time-series momentum between volume spikes to 5pm EST (the

beginning of the 60-minute break of CME Bitcoin futures trading) since most of the volume of

Bitcoin trading happens during these hours, and they also before the US markets open, and after

its close, enabling investors to trade in the Bitcoin markets after the main US markets have closed.

Gao et al. (2018) show intraday momentum in US ETFs over the period 10am EST to 4pm EST,

arguing that investors take onboard economic and policy announcements in the morning before

10am. Therefore, we re-examine our intraday momentum but now use the time period 10am EST

to 4pm EST consistent with Gao et al. (2018), thereby including the first half hour the US market

is also open.



Table 12 reports the results and shows that the first half hour does predict the last half hour, but

the magnitude of the prediction is a lot smaller in magnitude and statistical significance to our

previous results. This suggests that some predictability of the last half hour is lost between volume

spikes and 10am and therefore the market has already incorporated any overnight news by volume

spikes and Bitcoin traders should not wait until 10am to use this intraday momentum strategy.

Since 𝛽 of 𝑟𝐻2 is significantly negative in Table 11, it is not surprising that returns between 4pm

EST of previous day and 10am EST has lower predictive power. Therefore these findings support

our analysis that the intraday time-series momentum is most successful from volume spikes to

5pm EST.19



6. Summary and Conclusions

This paper examines the intraday time-series momentum in the largest cryptocurrency market,

Bitcoin. Unlike traditional markets, Bitcoin trades 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and therefore has

no definite opening and closing times. Therefore, we choose our open and closes based on the



19 We have also studied alternative periods and find consistent results.

                                                                                                  25
trading volume of Bitcoin and the findings of Eross et al. (2019) and use volume spikes to 5pm

EST as our opening and closing times. This also fits in with important economic news which is

released at 8:30am in the US and therefore enables Bitcoin traders to trade before the main US

stock markets open. Specifically, our first half-hour return is from 5pm the previous day to volume

spikes the next day, and the last half-hour return is the return between 4:30pm to 5pm. We find

that the first half significantly predicts the final half hour both in- and out-of-sample, and intraday

momentum-based trading yields substantial economic gains in terms of market timing and asset

allocation. We also show that intraday momentum is stronger on days where the first trading

sessions have higher trading volume and higher volatility. Consistent with Gao et al. (2018), we

also show that the intraday momentum is higher on days when past returns are positive rather than

negative. Finally, we show that this strategy may have benefits to investors if margin trading is

taken into consideration. We also testes possible explanations and find intraday momentum is

driven by the liquidity provision the trading session after opening, combined with intraday traders’

disposition effect and risk aversion to overnight risks.



Therefore overall, our results show evidence of significant intraday time-series momentum in

Bitcoin, which has substantial benefits to investors, especially during periods of downward trends

in the market. Consequently these results will be of interest to investors in Bitcoin and may help

diversify portfolios when the Bitcoin markets is in decline.




                                                                                                    26
References


Admati, A. R., & Pfleiderer, P., 1988. A theory of intraday patterns: Volume and price variability.
        The Review of Financial Studies, 1(1), 3-40.
Alexander, C., & Heck, D. F., 2020. Price discovery in Bitcoin: The impact of unregulated markets.
        Journal of Financial Stability, 50, 100776.
Asness, C. S., Moskowitz, T. J., & Pedersen, L. H., 2013. Value and momentum everywhere. The
        Journal of Finance, 68(3), 929-985.
Baltussen, G., Da, Z., Lammers, S., & Martens, M., 2021. Hedging demand and market intraday
        momentum. Journal of Financial Economics, 142(1), 377-403.
Bariviera, A. F., & Merediz-Solà, I., 2021. Where do we stand in cryptocurrencies economic
        research? A survey based on hybrid analysis. Journal of Economic Surveys, 35(2), 377-407.
Barroso, P., & Santa-Clara, P., 2015. Momentum has its moments. Journal of Financial Economics,
        116(1), 111-120.
Bloomfield, R., O’hara, M., & Saar, G., 2005. The “make or take” decision in an electronic market:
        Evidence on the evolution of liquidity. Journal of Financial Economics, 75(1), 165-199.
Borri, N., 2019. Conditional tail-risk in cryptocurrency markets. Journal of Empirical Finance, 50, 1-
        19.
Brandvold, M., Molnár, P., Vagstad, K., & Andreas Valstad, O. C., 2015. Price discovery on Bitcoin
        exchanges. Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, 36, 18-35.
Brauneis, A., Mestel, R., Riordan, R., & Theissen, E., 2021. How to measure the liquidity of
        cryptocurrency markets? Journal of Banking & Finance, 124, 106041.
Brière, M., Oosterlinck, K., & Szafarz, A., 2015. Virtual currency, tangible return: Portfolio
        diversification with bitcoin. Journal of Asset Management, 16(6), 365-373.
Burnside, C., Eichenbaum, M., & Rebelo, S., 2011. Carry trade and momentum in currency
        markets. Annual Review of Financial Economics, 3(1), 511-535.
Cheah, E.-T., & Fry, J., 2015. Speculative bubbles in Bitcoin markets? An empirical investigation
        into the fundamental value of Bitcoin. Economics Letters, 130, 32-36.
Cohen, L., & Frazzini, A., 2008. Economic links and predictable returns. The Journal of Finance,
        63(4), 1977-2011.
Corbet, S., Eraslan, V., Lucey, B., & Sensoy, A., 2019a. The effectiveness of technical trading rules
        in cryptocurrency markets. Finance Research Letters, 31, 32-37.
Corbet, S., Lucey, B., Urquhart, A., & Yarovaya, L., 2019b. Cryptocurrencies as a financial asset:
        A systematic analysis. International Review of Financial Analysis, 62, 182-199.
Corbet, S., Lucey, B., & Yarovaya, L., 2018a. Datestamping the Bitcoin and Ethereum bubbles.
        Finance Research Letters, 26, 81-88.
Corbet, S., Meegan, A., Larkin, C., Lucey, B., & Yarovaya, L., 2018b. Exploring the dynamic
        relationships between cryptocurrencies and other financial assets. Economics Letters, 165,
        28-34.
Corwin, S. A., & Schultz, P., 2012. A simple way to estimate bid-ask spreads from daily high and
        low prices. The Journal of Finance, 67(2), 719-760.
Daniel, K., & Moskowitz, T. J., 2016. Momentum crashes. Journal of Financial Economics, 122(2),
        221-247.
Detzel, A., Liu, H., Strauss, J., Zhou, G., & Zhu, Y., 2021. Learning and predictability via technical
        analysis: Evidence from bitcoin and stocks with hard-to-value fundamentals. Financial
        Management, 50(1), 107-137.
Elaut, G., Frömmel, M., & Lampaert, K., 2018. Intraday momentum in FX markets: Disentangling
        informed trading from liquidity provision. Journal of Financial Markets, 37, 35-51.
Eross, A., McGroarty, F., Urquhart, A., & Wolfe, S., 2019. The intraday dynamics of bitcoin.
        Research in International Business and Finance, 49, 71-81.
                                                                                                   27
Foley, S., Karlsen, J. R., & Putniņš, T. J., 2019. Sex, drugs, and bitcoin: How much illegal activity
         is financed through cryptocurrencies? The Review of Financial Studies, 32(5), 1798-1853.
Fuertes, A.-M., Miffre, J., & Rallis, G., 2010. Tactical allocation in commodity futures markets:
         Combining momentum and term structure signals. Journal of Banking & Finance, 34(10),
         2530-2548.
Gandal, N., Hamrick, J., Moore, T., & Oberman, T., 2018. Price manipulation in the Bitcoin
         ecosystem. Journal of Monetary Economics, 95, 86-96.
Gao, L., Han, Y., Zhengzi Li, S., & Zhou, G., 2018. Market intraday momentum. Journal of Financial
         Economics, 129(2), 394-414.
Georgopoulou, A., & Wang, J., 2017. The trend is your friend: Time-series momentum strategies
         across equity and commodity markets. Review of Finance, 21(4), 1557-1592.
Griffin, J. M., Ji, X., & Martin, J. S., 2003. Momentum investing and business cycle risk: Evidence
         from pole to pole. The Journal of Finance, 58(6), 2515-2547.
Grobys, K., Ahmed, S., & Sapkota, N., 2020. Technical trading rules in the cryptocurrency market.
         Finance Research Letters, 32, 101396.
Grobys, K., & Sapkota, N., 2019. Cryptocurrencies and momentum. Economics Letters, 180, 6-10.
Guesmi, K., Saadi, S., Abid, I., & Ftiti, Z., 2019. Portfolio diversification with virtual currency:
         Evidence from bitcoin. International Review of Financial Analysis, 63, 431-437.
Huang, D., Li, J., Wang, L., & Zhou, G., 2020. Time series momentum: Is it there? Journal of
         Financial Economics, 135(3), 774-794.
Hudson, R., & Urquhart, A., 2021. Technical trading and cryptocurrencies. Annals of Operations
         Research, 297(1), 191-220.
Jegadeesh, N., & Titman, S., 1993. Returns to buying winners and selling losers: Implications for
         stock market efficiency. The Journal of Finance, 48(1), 65-91.
Jin, M., Kearney, F., Li, Y., & Yang, Y. C., 2020. Intraday time-series momentum: Evidence from
         China. Journal of Futures Markets, 40(4), 632-650.
Kajtazi, A., & Moro, A., 2019. The role of bitcoin in well diversified portfolios: A comparative
         global study. International Review of Financial Analysis, 61, 143-157.
Katsiampa, P., 2017. Volatility estimation for Bitcoin: A comparison of GARCH models. Economics
         Letters, 158, 3-6.
Katsiampa, P., 2019. Volatility co-movement between Bitcoin and Ether. Finance Research Letters,
         30, 221-227.
Katsiampa, P., Corbet, S., & Lucey, B., 2019. High frequency volatility co-movements in
         cryptocurrency markets. Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, 62,
         35-52.
Klein, T., Thu, H. P., & Walther, T., 2018. Bitcoin is not the New Gold–A comparison of volatility,
         correlation, and portfolio performance. International Review of Financial Analysis, 59, 105-116.
Kroencke, T. A., Schindler, F., & Schrimpf, A., 2014. International diversification benefits with
         foreign exchange investment styles. Review of Finance, 18(5), 1847-1883.
Kyle, A. S., 1985. Continuous auctions and insider trading. Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric
         Society, 1315-1335.
Li, Y., Urquhart, A., Wang, P., & Zhang, W., 2021a. MAX momentum in cryptocurrency markets.
         International Review of Financial Analysis, 77, 101829.
Li, Z., Sakkas, A., & Urquhart, A., 2021b. Intraday time series momentum: Global evidence and
         links to market characteristics. Journal of Financial Markets, 100619.
Lim, B. Y., Wang, J. G., & Yao, Y., 2018. Time-series momentum in nearly 100 years of stock
         returns. Journal of Banking & Finance, 97, 283-296.
Lintilhac, P. S., & Tourin, A., 2017. Model-based pairs trading in the bitcoin markets. Quantitative
         Finance, 17(5), 703-716.
Liu, Y., & Tsyvinski, A., 2021. Risks and returns of cryptocurrency. The Review of Financial Studies,
         34(6), 2689–2727.
                                                                                                      28
Liu, Y., Tsyvinski, A., & Wu, X., 2021. Common risk factors in cryptocurrency. Journal of Finance,
        Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3379131. .
Locke, P. R., & Mann, S. C., 2005. Professional trader discipline and trade disposition. Journal of
        Financial Economics, 76(2), 401-444.
Malceniece, L., Malcenieks, K., & Putniņš, T. J., 2019. High frequency trading and comovement
        in financial markets. Journal of Financial Economics, 134(2), 381-399.
Menkhoff, L., Sarno, L., Schmeling, M., & Schrimpf, A., 2012. Currency momentum strategies.
        Journal of Financial Economics, 106(3), 660-684.
Miffre, J., & Rallis, G., 2007. Momentum strategies in commodity futures markets. Journal of
        Banking & Finance, 31(6), 1863-1886.
Moskowitz, T. J., Ooi, Y. H., & Pedersen, L. H., 2012. Time series momentum. Journal of Financial
        Economics, 104(2), 228-250.
Murphy, D. P., & Thirumalai, R. S., 2017. Short-term return predictability and repetitive
        institutional net order activity. Journal of Financial Research, 40(4), 455-477.
Nadarajah, S., & Chu, J., 2017. On the inefficiency of Bitcoin. Economics Letters, 150, 6-9.
Narayan, P. K., Ahmed, H. A., & Narayan, S., 2015. Do momentum-based trading strategies work
        in the commodity futures markets? Journal of Futures Markets, 35(9), 868-891.
Odean, T., 1998. Are investors reluctant to realize their losses? The Journal of Finance, 53(5), 1775-
        1798.
Philippas, D., Rjiba, H., Guesmi, K., & Goutte, S., 2019. Media attention and Bitcoin prices. Finance
        Research Letters, 30, 37-43.
Platanakis, E., Sutcliffe, C., & Urquhart, A., 2018. Optimal vs naïve diversification in
        cryptocurrencies. Economics Letters, 171, 93-96.
Platanakis, E., & Urquhart, A., 2020. Should investors include bitcoin in their portfolios? A
        portfolio theory approach. The British Accounting Review, 52(4), 100837.
Rapach, D., & Zhou, G. 2013. Forecasting stock returns Handbook of Economic Forecasting (Vol. 2):
        Elsevier. 328-383
Raza, A., Marshall, B. R., & Visaltanachoti, N., 2014. Is there momentum or reversal in weekly
        currency returns? Journal of International Money and Finance, 45, 38-60.
Rouwenhorst, K. G., 1998. International momentum strategies. The Journal of Finance, 53(1), 267-
        284.
Shen, D., Urquhart, A., & Wang, P., 2019. Does twitter predict Bitcoin? Economics Letters, 174, 118-
        122.
Shen, Q., Szakmary, A. C., & Sharma, S. C., 2007. An examination of momentum strategies in
        commodity futures markets. Journal of Futures Markets, 27(3), 227-256.
Tiwari, A. K., Jana, R. K., Das, D., & Roubaud, D., 2018. Informational efficiency of Bitcoin—
        An extension. Economics Letters, 163, 106-109.
Urquhart, A., 2016. The inefficiency of Bitcoin. Economics Letters, 148, 80-82.
Urquhart, A., 2017. Price clustering in Bitcoin. Economics Letters, 159, 145-148.
Urquhart, A., & Zhang, H., 2019. Is Bitcoin a hedge or safe haven for currencies? An intraday
        analysis. International Review of Financial Analysis, 63, 49-57.
Welch, I., & Goyal, A., 2008. A comprehensive look at the empirical performance of equity
        premium prediction. The Review of Financial Studies, 21(4), 1455-1508.
Zhang, W., Li, Y., Xiong, X., & Wang, P., 2021. Downside risk and the cross-section of
        cryptocurrency returns. Journal of Banking & Finance, 133, 106246.
Zhang, W., Wang, P., & Li, Y., 2020. Intraday Momentum in Chinese Commodity Futures
        Markets. Research in International Business and Finance, 54, 101278.




                                                                                                   29
Figure 1. The market share of Bitcoin trading volume in different currencies



                                                                               30
Table 1. Overview of Bitcoin trading data used
This table reports the overview of Bitcoin trading data used. Times are trading hours
selected based on volume spikes and CME Bitcoin futures break time, expressed in
Eastern Standard Time (EST).
 Exchanges    Trading pairs     Start         End            Average daily     Obs.     Times
                                                        trading volume (BTC)            (EST)
  Bitfinex     BTC/USD        2013-04-02   2020-12-31          18747.49        2827   9:05-17:00
  Bitstamp     BTC/USD        2013-01-01   2020-12-31           9732.90        2921   9:00-17:00
  CEX.IO       BTC/USD        2014-07-20   2020-12-31            618.02        2356   9:00-17:00
  Coinbase     BTC/USD        2014-12-03   2020-12-31          11833.09        2188   9:40-17:00
   Kraken      BTC/USD        2014-01-09   2020-12-31           3667.05        2500   9:15-17:00




                                                                                              31
Table 2. Descriptive statistics
This table reports the descriptive statistics of ONFH, SLH and LH return, volume, as well as all 30-minute return returns and volume together. We report the mean, the standard
deviation, the percentile 5, the percentile 95 and the skewness.
                                                                     Return                                                                 Volume
                                           Mean            Std        P5            P95        Skewness            Mean          Std          P5          P95        Skewness
                          𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻            0.00201        0.03710    -0.04591      0.05475        0.389            12670.4      16608.2      1400.1      38667.0        4.497
     Bitfinex               𝑆𝐿𝐻           -0.00003       0.00740    -0.00844      0.00918        -0.158            428.8        939.8         9.1       1618.7         5.934
                            𝐿𝐻            0.00045        0.00771    -0.00841      0.00965        -0.338            451.2       1261.7         7.2       1612.4         9.085
                          𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻            0.00294        0.03556    -0.04791      0.05985        0.496            6920.2       7042.6       1293.7      18970.5        4.422
     Bitstamp               𝑆𝐿𝐻           0.00009        0.00811    -0.00903      0.00951        -4.041            234.1        407.7        15.7        816.4        10.014
                            𝐿𝐻            0.00019        0.00829    -0.00884      0.00937        0.600             212.9        390.9        13.5        801.6         6.971
                          𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻            0.00123        0.02977    -0.04199      0.04589        0.148             406.4        504.0        34.5       1395.5         2.934
     CEX.IO                 𝑆𝐿𝐻           0.00006        0.00676    -0.00825      0.00862        -3.356            12.6          26.4         0.4        42.1         17.897
                            𝐿𝐻            0.00024        0.00632    -0.00776      0.00833        -0.718            11.8          22.1         0.3        40.9          7.511
                          𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻            0.00219        0.03185    -0.04918      0.05059        0.099            6595.8       6512.9       1944.0      17163.3        6.098
    Coinbase                𝑆𝐿𝐻           -0.00008       0.00790    -0.00852      0.00855        -7.566            273.3        339.6        58.6        844.1         5.248
                            𝐿𝐻            0.00015        0.00582    -0.00780      0.00842        -0.167            266.2        358.2        57.5        794.1         5.748
                          𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻            0.00190        0.03283    -0.04839      0.05226        -0.170           3143.1       2872.6       299.6       8403.3         2.922
      Kraken                𝑆𝐿𝐻           0.00026        0.00800    -0.00852      0.00943        -5.143            120.8        182.8         3.3        419.5         5.466
                            𝐿𝐻            0.00017        0.00668    -0.00825      0.00866        0.441             109.7        164.6         3.1        361.9         5.204
   All exchanges          All buckets     0.00008        0.00743    -0.00857      0.00867        4.572             178.6        439.9         1.0        667.6        14.089




                                                                                                                                                                                32
Table 3. In-sample and out-of-sample analysis
This table reports the results of regressing the last half-hour return (𝑟𝐿𝐻 ) on the first half hour return (𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 ) and
the second to last half hour return (𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 ) of the day. This table shows the in-sample results and the out-of-sample
results. We run the pooled regression 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇, where 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the
return of the last trading session on day t, 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 is the return during the close price of previous day and the price
of the end of first half hour on day t, 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the second-to-last half-hour return, and T is the total number of
trading days in our sample. The returns are annualized where Newey and West (1987) robust t-statistics are in
parentheses and significance at the 1%, 5% and 10% level is denoted by ***, ** and * respectively.
         Predictor                   𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                         𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻                        𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 and 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻
         Intercept                  4.983                        5.667                          7.237
                                    (1.02)                       (1.27)                         (1.39)
             𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                 0.968***                                                   0.937***
                                    (4.38)                                                      (4.26)
             𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻                                               -9.778***                     -9.720***
                                                                (-10.22)                       (-10.17)
              𝑅   2                 1.44%                        1.98%                         2.32%
              2
             𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆                   1.09%                        1.40%                         1.81%



Table 4. The impact of volume and volatility
This table reports the predictive regressions under different levels of trading volume and volatility of the first half
hour. The first half hour trading volume per year takes into account the increase in trading volume over time, and
then combine each volume tercile across all years to form three volume groups. The first half-hour volatility is
estimated using one-minute returns, and then all days are split into terciles by their first half hour volatility, low,
medium and high. We run the pooled regression 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇 in each
group, where 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the return of the last trading session on day t, 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 is the return during the close price of
previous day and the price of the end of first half hour on day t, 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the second-to-last half-hour return, and T
is the total number of trading days in our sample. The returns are annualized and Newey and West (1987) robust t-
statistics are in parentheses and significance at the 1%, 5% and 10% level is denoted by ***, ** and * respectively.
                                     Volume                                                  Volatility
                        High        Medium            Low                     High        Medium            Low
 Intercept              4.167        8.952            2.026                  13.383         1.155           -0.228
                        (1.32)       (1.32)           (0.97)                  (1.26)        (1.30)         (-0.43)
   𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻              2.013***       1.247*           0.430                 2.012***       0.586*           0.786
                        (4.74)       (1.78)           (1.30)                  (6.25)        (1.69)          (0.96)
    𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻              -15.539***   -10.080***       -5.309***               -15.882***    -5.152***       -11.256***
                       (-12.08)      (-8.67)         (-3.54)                 (-10.44)      (-3.22)         (-11.41)
     𝑅   2              3.86%        2.07%           1.09%                    2.83%         2.20%           1.18%




                                                                                                                       33
 Table 5. Timing strategy
 This table reports the economic value of timing the last half-hour market return using the first, second last or both.
 The benchmark Always Long involves investing in the market during the last half hour of each trading day, while
 Buy-and-Hold involves buying and holding the market on a daily basis. For each strategy, we report the average
 return (Avg ret), standard deviation (Std Dev), Sharpe ratio (Sratio), skewness, kurtosis and success rate (Success).
 The returns are annualized and Newey and West (1987) robust t-statistics are employed and significance at the 1%,
 5% and 10% level is denoted by ***, ** and * respectively.

              Timing              Avg ret(%)          Std dev(%)      SRatio    Skewness      Kurtosis     Success(%)
             𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )              7.817**              11.976       0.653       -0.444       62.546        51.598
              𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )             17.315***             10.096       1.715       0.830        69.809        56.138
  Full
          𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )         16.693***             9.682        1.724       0.108       157.921        58.115
sample
           Always long              6.538**              14.350       0.456       -0.896       68.894        46.959
          Buy-and-Hold            154.623***            101.715       1.520       -1.439       28.437
             𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )              49.800*              29.952       1.663       0.597        32.122        52.308
              𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )             68.776**              28.966       2.374       2.353        34.205        57.895
2013      𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )         54.104***             22.129       2.445       3.307        67.031        60.853
           Always long               34.732              29.993       1.158       0.080        32.112        54.437
          Buy-and-Hold            5308.965***           149.835       35.432      -1.877       20.733
             𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )               7.480               12.308       0.608       0.640        12.861        50.580
              𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )             15.445**              10.767       1.435       0.018        12.179        55.758
2014      𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )          8.633**              7.420        1.163       -0.050       20.940        56.659
           Always long            1.817(0.23)            14.653       0.124       -4.927       98.777        53.620
          Buy-and-Hold              -56.188              75.641       -0.743      -0.244        8.699
             𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )               2.122               14.390       0.147       -4.149       47.288        52.326
              𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )               1.714               13.081       0.131       -2.805       61.022        54.042
2015      𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )           3.941               10.270       0.384       -7.722      117.597        57.364
           Always long               -7.894              14.455       -0.546      -3.620       46.040        48.658
          Buy-and-Hold               34.545              71.418       0.484       -1.183       15.573
             𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )              6.206**              6.291        0.986       0.492        15.620        52.136
              𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )             23.134***             6.122        3.779       1.621        15.629        58.134
2016      𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )         14.798***             4.138        3.576       4.266        36.447        61.196
           Always long               2.093               6.301        0.332       0.310        15.611        52.484
          Buy-and-Hold             123.564*              48.340       2.556       -0.975       13.647
             𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )               1.788               12.937       0.138       0.020        10.172        52.243
              𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )             18.930***             12.905       1.467       0.070        10.225        55.986
2017      𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )          9.971**              8.304        1.201       0.426        21.204        58.540
           Always long             27.851***             12.874       2.163       0.846         9.978        53.554
          Buy-and-Hold            1322.570***            92.938       14.231      0.112         5.797
             𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )               -0.192              12.035       -0.016      -1.445       17.113        51.586
              𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )             21.496***             11.991       1.793       0.151        17.278        56.215
2018      𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )         10.084**              8.864        1.138       -1.478       28.524        57.772
           Always long               -3.108              12.034       -0.258      1.652        17.214        47.517
          Buy-and-Hold              -73.455              84.620       -0.868      -0.450        4.934
             𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )               5.395               9.383        0.575       0.009        10.426        51.557
2019          𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )             17.323***             9.343        1.854       1.047        10.187        54.720
          𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )         11.116***             6.280        1.770       2.063        19.001        55.965

                                                                                                                      34
          Always long             16.542***             9.354        1.769       -0.489       10.686        55.667
         Buy-and-Hold              93.974              70.103        1.341       0.234        7.093
            𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )               3.861              13.579        0.284       -2.510       54.469        50.092
            𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )                0.475              13.580        0.035       -4.204       54.335        56.077
2020     𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )           2.145              10.458        0.205       -7.330      125.741        56.285
          Always long              15.727*             13.559        1.160       3.686        53.796        53.211
         Buy-and-Hold             301.832*             81.072        3.723       -4.176       54.382



Table 6. Utility gain
This table reports the economic value of recursively predicting the last half-hour market return using the first half-
hour return alone, or combining it with the second last half-hour return. We use the predicted returns to form a
constrained mean-variance optimal portfolio for a mean-variance investor with a relative risk aversion of five.
Portfolio weights are restricted to a range between −0.5 and 1.5. For each strategy, we report the average return
(Avg ret), standard deviation (Std dev), Sharpe ratio (SRatio), skewness, kurtosis, and the certainty equivalent gain,
CER, calculated as the difference in the certainty equivalent rate of return between the optimal mean-variance
strategy and benchmark using the historical average returns instead of the forecasted last half-hour returns. The
returns are annualized and in percentage. Newey and West (1987) robust t-statistics are used, and significance at the
1%, 5%, or 10% level is denoted by ∗∗∗, ∗∗, or ∗, respectively.
            Predictor              Avg ret(%)       Std dev(%)      SRatio      Skewness       Kurtosis      CER(%)
              r̅𝐿𝐻                  2.278**           4.328         0.526       29.434        1060.087
         𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻               10.776**          10.333         1.043       10.351        553.339        5.945
   𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻         13.951***         12.160         1.147       18.386        611.192        8.093




                                                                                                                     35
           Table 7. Conditional predictability
           This table reports the predictive regression results conditioned on the sign of the first half-hour returns. Panel A
           reports the regression results when rONFH is positive, while Panel B reports the regression results when rONFH is
           negative. We run the pooled regression 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇 in each group,
           where 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the return of the last trading session on day t, 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 is the return during the close price of previous
           day and the price of the end of first half hour on day t, 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the second-to-last half-hour return, and T is the total
           number of trading days in our sample. Returns are annualized and in percentage where we use Newey and West
           (1987) robust t-statistics. Statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, or 10% level is denoted by ∗∗∗, ∗∗, or ∗,
           respectively.
                                   Panel A: When 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 >0                                             Panel B: When 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 <0
         Predictor      𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻           𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻         𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 and 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻                         𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻         𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻         𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 and 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻
         Intercept      -2.205       13.169***            -0.777              Intercept     2.012         1.902             2.670
                        (-0.46)         (3.55)            (-0.16)                            (0.41)       (0.49)            (0.54)
          𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻        1.950***                            1.777***               𝛽1         0.050                          0.106
                         (5.12)                             (4.70)                           (0.12)                         (0.25)
           𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻                      -12.471***           -12.186***             𝛽16                    -6.109***         -6.120***
                                       (-9.80)              (-9.59)                                      (-4.20)           (-4.21)
            𝑅   2       1.89%          2.78%              3.19%                   𝑅   2     0.11%        0.88%              0.89%



          Table 8. Break-even analysis
          This table reports the break-even cost (in basis points) and profit per trade. Break-even is the trading costs that
          reduce performance reported in Table 5 to zero. Profit (%) per trade is the average return on trading day using the
          strategy. “-” denotes that since the corresponding strategy does not generate positive profit, there does not exist
          break-even cost. We also report the break-even cost and profit per trade of Bitcoin margin trading with different
          leverages. 2:1 indicates that Bitcoin investors can use 1,000 USD to buy up 2,000 USD worth of Bitcoin. 5:1 and
          10:1 also have the same definition.
                                   Num of
                                               Break- Profit (%)       Break- Profit (%)       Break- Profit (%)         Break- Profit (%)
Timing                             trading
                                               even      per trade     even      per trade     even        per trade     even    per trade
                                     days
                                                 Without leverage               2:1                       5:1                   10:1
                  𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )         3375          3          0.028        6          0.057        15           0.142        29       0.284
                   𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )         3375          7          0.061       13          0.121        32           0.303        64       0.607
Full sample
               𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )     1465         10          0.096       20          0.191        48           0.478        96       0.957
                Always long         3375          2          0.020        4          0.040        10           0.099        20       0.198
                  𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )          365         12          0.116       24          0.231        59           0.578       118       1.157
                   𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )          365         17          0.152       33          0.303        82           0.758       163       1.517
   2013
               𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )      160         29          0.284       57          0.568       142           1.419       284       2.838
                Always long          365          9          0.088       18          0.176        44           0.439        88       0.878
                  𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )          365          1          0.003        1          0.007         2           0.017         4       0.035
                   𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )          365          6          0.051       11          0.101        26           0.253        52       0.506
   2014
               𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )      180          6          0.059       12          0.117        30           0.293        59       0.586
                Always long          365          2          0.015        3          0.029         8           0.073        15       0.146
                  𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )          362          4          0.038        8          0.075        19           0.188        38       0.376
                   𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )          362          2          0.012        3          0.025         7           0.062        13       0.125
   2015
               𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )      165          6          0.055       11          0.109        28           0.273        55       0.545
                Always long          362          -         -0.015        -         -0.029         -          -0.074         -      -0.147
                  𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )          366          3          0.020        5          0.040        11           0.100        21       0.201
                   𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )          366          6          0.054       12          0.109        28           0.272        56       0.544
   2016
               𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )      165          9          0.083       17          0.166        42           0.414        83       0.828
                Always long          366          1          0.005        1          0.010         3           0.024         5       0.048
                                                                                                                                     36
         𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )        365   1    0.004    1    0.008    2    0.019    4         0.038
          𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )        365   7    0.063   13    0.127   32    0.317   64         0.634
2017
       𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )   172   8    0.071   15    0.143   36    0.357   72         0.713
        Always long       365   9    0.083   17    0.165   42    0.413   83         0.826
         𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )        365   1    0.003    1    0.006    2    0.016    4         0.032
          𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )        365   7    0.063   13    0.125   32    0.313   63         0.627
2018
       𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )   188   7    0.064   13    0.128   33    0.320   65         0.641
        Always long       365   -   -0.011    -   -0.022    -   -0.054    -        -0.108
         𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )        365   2    0.014    3    0.028    7    0.069   14         0.139
          𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )        365   6    0.058   12    0.116   30    0.290   59         0.580
2019
       𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )   186   8    0.071   15    0.141   36    0.353   71         0.705
        Always long       365   5    0.048   10    0.096   25    0.240   49         0.480
         𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 )        366   2    0.017    4    0.033    9    0.083   17         0.167
          𝜂(𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )        366   1    0.005    2    0.010    3    0.025    6         0.051
2020
       𝜂(𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 , 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 )   182   3    0.022    5    0.044   11    0.109   22         0.218
        Always long       366   5    0.040    9    0.081   21    0.202   41         0.404




                                                                              37
Table 9. Potential explanations
This table reports the results of testing potential explanations. We report descriptive statistics for Bitcoin news in
panel A and explanation about late-informed trading in Panel B. We run the pooled regression 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 +
𝛽𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠 𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠𝑡 + 𝛽𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 (𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠𝑡 × 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 ) + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇, where 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is
the return of the last trading session on day t, 𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠𝑡 is the log number of Bitcoin news, 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 is the return during
the close price of previous day and the price of the end of first half hour on day t, 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the second-to-last half-
hour return, and T is the total number of trading days in our sample. We report descriptive statistics for liquidity
measure in panel C and explanation about liquidity provision in Panel D. We run the pooled regression 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 +
𝛽𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑 𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 (𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑡 × 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 ) + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇, where
𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑 is the Corwin and Schultz (2012) spread estimator in the first half hour trading session. The returns are
annualized where Newey and West (1987) robust t-statistics are in parentheses and significance at the 1%, 5% and
10% level is denoted by ***, ** and * respectively.

Panel A: Descriptive statistics for news
   Mean           Std             P5          P25             Median           P75           P95            Skewness
   2.592        0.671          1.386       2.197              2.708            3.135         3.434           -0.634
Panel B: Explanation about late-informed trading
                           (1)                 (2)                   (3)                    (4)                  (5)
     Intercept         11.612***            11.146                10.527                  9.938                9.250
                         (2.62)              (1.59)                (1.56)                 (1.48)               (1.44)
      𝛽𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠              -0.027             -0.028                -0.027                 -0.026               -0.026
                        (-1.20)             (-1.25)               (-1.22)                (-1.14)              (-1.11)
   𝛽𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑠∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                                                                            -0.405               -0.429
                                                                                         (-1.17)              (-1.24)
      𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                                  1.129***            1.081***               2.252***            2.268***
                                               (4.77)              (4.603)                (3.27)               (3.31)
       𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻                                                     -11.919***                                 -11.926***
                                                                  (-11.89)                                   (-11.90)
        𝑅2                 0.06%                1.52%              2.25%                 1.54%                2.37%
Panel C: Descriptive statistics for liquidity measure
                   Mean           Std          P5       P25           Median           P75         P95       Skewness
   Bitfinex       0.992         1.537     0.024     0.184              0.470         1.129         3.614       4.642
   Bitstamp       0.995         1.676     0.000     0.233              0.538         1.144         3.364       7.761
   CEX.IO         0.914         1.345     0.015     0.243              0.542         1.096         2.888       5.919
   Coinbase       0.840         1.959     0.031     0.156              0.411         0.966         2.925      18.579
    Kraken        0.817         1.521     0.000     0.001              0.358         0.980         3.280       7.027
Panel D: Explanation about liquidity provision
                            (1)                (2)                   (3)                    (4)                 (5)
     Intercept           -1.459              -2.699               -2.029                 -0.115               0.315
                         (-0.46)            (-0.84)               (-0.64)                (-0.04)              (0.10)
      𝛽𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑           9.411***           9.874***              9.439***               8.476***            8.174***
                          (5.33)             (5.59)                (5.37)                 (4.80)              (4.65)
  𝛽𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                                                                          0.417***            0.385***
                                                                                          (8.85)              (8.18)
      𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                                  1.038***             1.003***               -0.401              -0.321
                                               (4.70)              (4.56)                (-1.47)             (-1.18)
       𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻                                                      -9.593***                                 -9.025***
                                                                  (-10.05)                                   (-9.46)
        𝑅2                0.68%               1.70%                2.80%                 1.88%               3.16%



                                                                                                                        38
Table 10. Return decomposition
This table reports the results of regressing the last half-hour return on the overnight return(𝑟𝑂𝑁 ),
the opening half-hour return (𝑟𝐹𝐻 ), and the second-to-last half-hour return (𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 ). This table shows
the in-sample results and the out-of-sample results. We run the pooled regression 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑂𝑁 𝑟𝑂𝑁,𝑡 +
𝛽𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇, where 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the return of the last trading session on day t,
𝑟𝑂𝑁,𝑡 is the return during the close price of previous day and the opening price on day t, 𝑟𝐹𝐻,𝑡 is the return during
the opening price and the price of the end of first half hour on day t, 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the second-to-last half-hour return,
and T is the total number of trading days in our sample. The returns are annualized where Newey and West (1987)
robust t-statistics are in parentheses and significance at the 1%, 5% and 10% level is denoted by ***, ** and *
respectively.
        Predictor                     𝑟𝑂𝑁                          𝑟𝐹𝐻                    𝑟𝑂𝑁 , 𝑟𝐹𝐻 , and 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻
        Intercept                   6.856                         7.839                          7.248
                                    (1.24)                       (1.50)                          (1.40)
          𝛽𝑂𝑁                     1.181***                                                      1.097***
                                    (5.28)                                                       (4.93)
          𝛽𝐹𝐻                                                   3.936**                          3.762*
                                                                 (2.09)                          (1.92)
          𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻                                                                                 -9.770***
                                                                                                (-10.23)
           𝑅 2                      1.38%                        0.57%                           2.45%
           2
          𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆                      0.99%                        0.12%                           1.78%




Table 11. Alternative trading pairs
This table reports the results of regressing the last half-hour return (𝑟𝐿𝐻 ) on the first half hour return (𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 ) and
the second to last half hour return (𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻 ) of the day in Japan and South Korea markets. This table shows the in-
sample and out-of-sample results. We run the pooled regression 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 =
1, … , 𝑇, where 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the return of the last trading session on day t, 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 is the return during the close price of
previous day and the price of the end of first half hour on day t, 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the second-to-last half-hour return and T is
the total number of trading days in our sample. The returns are annualized where Newey and West (1987) robust t-
statistics are in parentheses and significance at the 1%, 5% and 10% level is denoted by ***, ** and * respectively.
Panel A: Basic information of trading data used
   Exchanges          Trading pairs          Start             End            Average daily        Obs.          Times
                                                                             trading volume                   (Local time)
                                                                                  (BTC)
     bitFlyer          BTC/JPY           2015-07-04        2020-12-31           10572.59           2011        9:00-15:00
     BtcBox            BTC/JPY           2014-04-11        2020-12-31            4470.82           2456        9:15-15:00
       Zaif            BTC/JPY           2017-07-02        2020-12-31            4013.75           1258        9:00-15:00
      Korbit          BTC/KRW            2013-09-03        2020-12-31            1355.82           2666        9:15-15:30
Panel B: Intraday momentum in Japan markets
          Predictor                     𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                          𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻                        𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 and 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻
        Intercept                     2.323                          2.904                            2.775
                                      (0.58)                         (0.77)                           (0.74)
          𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                      0.631**                                                         0.556**
                                      (2.20)                                                          (2.38)
           𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻                                                   -27.030***                        -26.969***
                                                                    (-13.00)                         (-14.89)
           𝑅 2                        0.10%                         11.41%                           11.60%
            2
          𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆                   -1.40%                              9.93%                            8.63%
Panel C: Intraday momentum in South Korea market

                                                                                                                       39
        Predictor                     𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                           𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻                       𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 and 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻
        Intercept                     1.276                           3.731                           0.183
                                      (0.20)                          (0.61)                          (0.03)
          𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                     2.880***                                                        2.614***
                                      (3.16)                                                          (2.50)
           𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻                                                   -22.332***                       -21.686***
                                                                     (-10.80)                        (-10.53)
           𝑅 2                      1.40%                            4.19%                            5.35%
           2
          𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆                      0.31%                            3.22%                            4.33%
Panel D: Explanation on liquidity provision
                                                             (1)                                    (2)
                                                        BTC/JPY                                BTC/KRW
                  Intercept                                 3.648                                  0.269
                                                           (0.94)                                 (0.04)
                  𝛽𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑                                5.314***                               8.054***
                                                           (6.12)                                 (5.58)
             𝛽𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑∗𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                                0.472***                               0.247***
                                                           (6.48)                                 (7.75)
                   𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                                    0.433                                  1.701
                                                           (1.45)                                 (0.99)
                    𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻                                -23.883***                             -19.651***
                                                          (-12.60)                               (-11.62)
                     𝑅2                                   13.59%                                  6.59%




Table 12. Alternative predictability
This table reports the alternative time frame results, where we take 9:30am EST as the open and 4pm as the close,
consistent with NYSE trading hours. This table shows the in-sample results and the out-of-sample results. We run
the pooled regression 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 = 𝛼 + 𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 + 𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 + 𝜖𝑡 , 𝑡 = 1, … , 𝑇, where 𝑟𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the return of the
last trading session on day t, 𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻,𝑡 is the return during the close price of previous day and the price of the end of
first half hour on day t, 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻,𝑡 is the second-to-last half-hour return, and T is the total number of trading days in our
sample. The returns are annualized where Newey and West (1987) robust t-statistics are in parentheses and
significance at the 1%, 5% and 10% level is denoted by ***, ** and * respectively.
         Predictor                    𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                         𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻                      𝑟𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻 and 𝑟𝑆𝐿𝐻
        Intercept                   8.754                        10.439                         10.031
                                    (1.35)                       (1.07)                          (1.40)
         𝛽𝑂𝑁𝐹𝐻                     0.372**                                                      0.548**
                                    (2.54)                                                       (2.31)
          𝛽𝑆𝐿𝐻                                                 -18.152***                     -18.261***
                                                                (-19.10)                        (-19.20)
           𝑅 2                      1.43%                        2.53%                          2.89%
           2
          𝑅𝑂𝑂𝑆                      0.51%                        1.46%                          1.92%




                                                                                                                       40
